you can also allow
Pennsylvania local resident withholding for employees who reside in Pennsylvania but
work outside of the state.
Single Sites with Multiple Legal Entities
You can assign multiple legal entities to a single site within your organization by using overrides at
the On-Site Department level. This gives you greater flexibility in structuring the organization. It
also provides an additional level of override so that on-site departments within a site can all report
to their own legal entities and each have their own taxation address.
Before You Begin: Make sure that you are familiar with the general concepts in Organization
Hierarchy.
How Overrides Are Applied
Dayforce is bound by the following constraints when applying overrides:
If the Employee Work Location Override is configured, it sets the override.

-- 382 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 383 of 0
Site level settings are the default if there are no other configurations.
If an On-Site Department level override is configured, it overrides the Site level.
If an override is needed, the tabled address must be used; otherwise the Site level address
applies.
Free form addresses in the Site level are used for taxation unless a tabled address is
selected in the Site level.
Role Configuration
Before You Begin: Complete the following configuration steps:
Configure a role to assign multiple legal entities to a single site
Ensure that Support has released the ability to set taxation addresses on work locations
Configure a role to set taxation addresses on work locations
Configure a Role to Assign Multiple Legal Entities to a Single Site
1. Go to System Admin > Roles and select the role to which you want to grant access.
2. Click the Features tab.
3. Select the Org Setup > Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Location Addresses role feature.
4. Click Save, then click Refresh.
Ensure that Support has Released the Ability to Set Taxation Addresses on Work Locations
(Service Level Users Only) The ability to set the taxation address on an employee work location
override isn’t released to all instances, and must be released to instances specifically using the
script: IsTaxationAddressAvailable.
Configure a Role to Set Taxation Addresses on Work Locations
1. Go to System Admin > Roles and select the role to which you want to grant access.
2. Click the Features tab.
3. Select the Org Setup > Org Setup > Organization > Organization > Taxation Address
Available role feature.
4. Click Save, then click Refresh.
After Your Role is Configured
After your role has access to assign multiple legal entities to a site, you can proceed with the three
main steps involved in assigning multiple legal entities to a site:
Set Location Addresses for a Legal Entity
Set Employee Work Location Overrides
Set the Taxation Address for an Employee Work Location
Set Location Addresses for a Legal Entity

-- 383 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 384 of 0
The first step for assigning multiple legal entities to a single site is entering the appropriate
addresses in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Location Addresses. The following screenshot is
an example:
To set up location addresses:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Location Addresses and click Add.
2. Add the following basic information to the new entry fields:
Enter a name for the location address.
(Optional) Enter a description for the location address.
Enter an cross-reference code for imports and exports.
Select the Is Taxation checkbox.
3. In the fields below the new entry, fill out the rest of the fields:
Short Name: This is populated with the name that you entered.
Description: This is populated with the description that you entered.
Reference Code: This is populated with the cross-reference code that you entered.
Address: Required field for the location address.
Address Line 2: Optional field for the location address.
Zip / Postal Code: Required field for the ZIP or postal code.
Country Code: Required drop-down list to select the country.
State / Province: Required drop-down list to select the state or province.
City: Required drop-down list to select the city; also has the Add a new city option.
County: Optional field for the county.
4. Click Save, then click Refresh.

-- 384 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 385 of 0
Setting up the addresses here replaces the free form address option in the Employee Work
Location Overrides tab with a table of addresses in the Location Addresses tab. This provides
greater consistency and lets you select an existing address rather than enter addresses manually
with an override.
Set Employee Work Location Overrides
Next, enter new employee work location overrides in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Employee
Work Location Overrides. The addresses that you created in the Location Address tab are options
here in the Location Address drop-down list, and they also appear as options in the Taxation
Address drop-down list in the Address tab.
To add an employee work location override:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Employee Work Location Overrides and click Add.
2. Enter a name and, optionally, a description.
3. (Optional) Select the Allow Legal Entity Override checkbox if you want to configure a legal
entity override the work location override. The Legal Entity tab is added to the screen.
4. Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field.
5. In the Address tab, select an address in the Location Address drop-down list.
6. (Optional) Click the Legal Entity tab and complete the following steps:
a. Click Add.
b. In the Legal Entity drop-down list, select a legal entity.
c. Enter a start date in the Effective From field.
d. (Optional) Enter an end date in the Effective To field.
7. Click Save, then click Refresh.
Set the Taxation Address for an Employee Work Location
After you have set up the addresses and work location overrides for the organization to use, you
are ready to set the taxation address for employee work locations.
To set the taxation address for an employee work location:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. Select an org unit at the Site level or the Department org level.
3. Click the Address sub-tab and select an option in the Taxation Address drop-down list.
4. Click Save, then click Refresh.
In terms of when to apply the overrides, the application is bound by the following constraints:
If configured, the Employee Work Location Override sets the override.
The On-Site Department level overrides the Site level, if configured.
Site-level settings are the default if there are no other configurations.

-- 385 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 386 of 0
If an override is needed, the tabled address must be used, otherwise the site-level address
applies.
Free form addresses at the site level are used for taxation unless a tabled address is
selected at the site level.
Override the Coordinates of Location Addresses
As part of assigning multiple legal entities to a single site, you can enter location addresses for the
legal entities to override the site-level address. Dayforce uses a third-party geocoding tool to
ensure the accuracy of the addresses you've entered. The tool generates a set of coordinates
when it validates the address. These coordinates are then used to determine the appropriate tax
jurisdiction for payroll calculations. When needed, you can override the validated coordinates in
Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Location Addresses.
Note: The override coordinates feature should only be used for US states with local government
taxes.
Before You Begin:
Make sure that you're familiar with the general concepts in Single Sites with Multiple Legal
Entities
Configure the location addresses for the legal entity.
Role feature access:
Org Setup > Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Location Addresses
Org Setup > Org Setup > Organization > Organization > Taxation Address Available
To add override coordinates for a legal entity's location address:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Location Addresses.
2. Expand the custom location address that you want to update.
3. Select the Geo Points Override checkbox.
4. Enter the override coordinates in Latitude and Longitude. The accepted range of values in
Latitude is between +90 and-90. The accepted range of values in Longitude is between
+180 and -180.
5. Important: Dayforce isn’t responsible for the accuracy of the override coordinates you enter.
5. Click Save.
To ensure that the correct tax jurisdiction is used in the payroll calculations, Dayforce clears the
override coordinates when you change any of the following fields in the location address: Country
Code, State/Province, Address, Address Line 2, County, City, and Zip/Postal Code.
Configure Legal Entity for Early Filing Status

-- 386 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 387 of 0
In the United States and Canada, when a legal entity is sold or goes out of business mid-year,
employers must generate, print, and distribute tax forms to employees within 30 days of notifying
the government. Also, within these 30 days, employers must send the completed tax forms to the
government for processing. In Dayforce, you can update the legal entity with an end date and
update the status to report an out of business, lost tax form, or new seasonal operation status for
government mid-year reporting for early filers.
Note: Amendments aren’t available for early filers until February of the following year. Also, US
1099 and D2X tax forms aren’t eligible for early filing.
To configure a legal entity for early filing:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select the US or Canadian legal
entity.
2. In the Legal Entity Status drop-down list, select the applicable status such as Lost with Tax
Forms and Filing or Out of Business (Accelerated).
3. In the Effective End field, enter an end date.
4. Go to Year End > Canada Year End or Year End > USA Year End, select the applicable
year from the Year drop-down list to run the year end process for the affected legal entity.
5. In the Process Job drop-down list, select a filing option such as Generate Preview, Request
Print, or Distribute for Filing.
6. Click Save.
Configure GRS Tax Remittance (Canada only)
For legal entities in Canada, you must configure the application to remit taxes through the
Government Remittance System (GRS) in the Dayforce Back Office system, and to specify the
frequency at which those taxes will be remitted. This is to ensure that remittances are made
correctly and on time. This is done in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, in the Tax
Remittance tab.
Tax remittance authorities
Tax Authority 	Taxes
Canada Federal Federal Income Tax (includes all non-Quebec Provinces and
Territories), Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance.
Manitoba 	Manitoba Health and Education Tax (HET)
Newfoundland / Labrador Newfoundland & Labrador Health and Post-Secondary
Education Tax (HAPSET)
Northwest Territories 	Northwest Territories Payroll Tax
Nova Scotia 	Workers Compensation
Nunavut 	Nunavut Payroll Tax
Ontario 	Ontario Employer Health Tax (EHT)

-- 387 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 388 of 0
Quebec
Quebec Income Tax, Quebec Pension Plan, Quebec Parental Insurance Plan,
Health Services Fund (HSF), Quebec Workers’ Compensation Premiums (CNESST –
formerly CSST)
To configure the application to remit taxes to the GRS:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
2. Select the Canadian legal entity you want to work with.
3. Click the Tax Remittance tab.
4. Click Add.
5. In the Authority drop-down list, select a tax authority.
6. In the Remittance Frequency drop-down list, select a frequency.
7. Select the Is Remitted checkbox.
8. In the Start Date field, enter a date when the tax remittance through GRS starts.
9. (Optional) In the End Date field, select a date when the tax remittance through GRS stops.
10. Click Save.
Customer Funding Identifiers for Canadian Legal Entities
For Canadian legal entities, you can specify the funding account used by the legal entity to pay its
employees in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity in the Customer Funding Identifiers
tab.
You can also set the funding account at the pay group level in Pay Setup > Pay Group, in the
Payroll Properties tab, by entering the account number in the Identifier field. As a best practice,
you should configure a funding identifier at the pay group level, even if you are configuring a legal
entity level funding identifier. Additional information is available in Pay Groups.
Important: Legal entity funding identifiers override pay group funding identifiers.
Configuring a customer funding identifier for a Canadian legal entity ensures that employees in
pay groups under that legal entity are paid using the account associated with the legal entity
funding identifier, regardless of any identifier set at the pay group level.
The process to determine what funding identifier to use is determined by Dayforce during the
sales and contracting process.
Customer Funding Identifiers for Canada
Canadian customer funding identifiers conform to the following specifications:
The customer funding identifier must start with the letters E, F, or L (to indicate the series),
then have an alphanumeric character other than O, I, or Z, then have three numeric
characters.
The identifiers E4000, F4000, and L4000 are reserved and cannot be used.

-- 388 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 389 of 0
Assigning Customer Funding Identifiers to Canadian Legal Entities
To assign customer funding identifiers to Canadian legal entities:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Customer Funding Identifiers tab.
3. Click Add.
4. (Optional) Select the Is Default checkbox.
5. Enter a name and, optionally, a description.
6. In the Reference Code field, enter an XREF code.
7. In the Funding Identifier field, enter the appropriate funding identifier.
8. In the Effective Start field, select or enter an effective from date. The application uses the
funding identifier information during its effective date range.
9. Click Save.
Overriding Customer Funding Identifiers in Canadian Legal Entities
Dayforce applies the default funding identifier to all org units within the legal entity, unless
otherwise specified. However, if you have configured multiple customer funding identifiers, you
can override the default funding identifier at specific org levels.
In Org Setup > Organization > Organization, select an org level to expand the slide-out panel. In
the Legal Entity tab, and select a non-default funding identifier in the Override Customer Funding
Identifiers drop-down list:
Employment Insurance in Canada

-- 389 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 390 of 0
In Canada, both employees and employers make contributions to employment insurance (or EI)
premiums. Employee contribution amounts are determined by employee insurable earnings
multiplied by the federal (or provincial, in Quebec) rate, up to a maximum annual insurable
earnings amount. You can locate the latest Federal and provincial (Quebec) EI premium rates and
maximums by visiting https://www.canada.ca.
Employers must contribute EI premiums based on a factor of 1.4 times the employee's premium
contribution (there can be exceptions: see https://www.canada.ca and talk with your
implementation consultant). If we take Linda as an example again Employers also have a federal –
or provincial, for Quebec – maximum annual employer premium amount. As a rule, the employer
is responsible for the following:
Deducting employee EI premiums from the employee's insurable earnings up to a maximum
annual premium amount
Contributing employer EI premiums, calculated by multiplying employee contributions by
1.4, up to a maximum annual employer premium amount
For the year 2018, for employee contributions, the federal rate is 1.66% on a maximum annual
insurable earnings amount of $51,700, for a maximum annual employee contribution amount of
$858.22. The employer maximum annual premium amount is $1,201.51.
For example, if Linda lives in Ontario and earns $30,000 annually, her total annual EI contribution
amount would be $489, calculated as follows: $30,000 x 1.66% = $489
The employer's total annual EI contribution amount would be $684.60, calculated by multiplying
Linda's amount by 1.4: $489 x 1.4 = $684.60
However, if Linda's annual salary were $95,000, her total EI contributions would be $858.22, and
her employer's contributions would be $1,201.51, because the 2018 maximum annual insurable
earnings amount is $51,700.
To set the employment insurance factors for a legal entity, you need to create at least one EI rate
group and reference code entry and save it, effectively assigning it to the legal entity.
If the legal entity has received permission from Service Canada to remit employment insurance
premiums at a lower rate, you can enter an additional EI rate group and reference code with a
lower defined factor. If you configure multiple EI rate groups for a legal entity, you can override the
default rate group at the employee level in People for a selected employee in the Payroll > Tax
Definitions screen in the Employee Payroll Tax section. Instructions and additional information are
available in the topic Assign EI Rates to Employees.
In the following screenshot, you can see the entries for employment insurance rates for a selected
legal entity in the Employment Insurance sub-tab:

-- 390 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 391 of 0
In the example screenshot, in addition to the Default EI rate group, you can see additional EI rate
entries for the legal entity Manufacturing Co. Canada. Each of these was set up with a different
rate. Take the example Category 3 EI 1.224, which has a rate set at 1.224 with an effective start
date of January 1, 2020:

-- 391 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 392 of 0
After you have created employment insurance rates for a legal entity, you can assign them to
employees. See Assign EI Rates to Employees.
Set the Employer EI Rate for a Legal Entity
When the legal entity gets permission from Service Canada to remit employment insurance (EI)
premiums at a lower rate, you need to set custom EI rates (or factors) for a legal entity. To set a
custom rate, you must create at least one EI Rate Group with a corresponding Reference Number
with the lower factor, and assign the rate group to the legal entity.
If more than one EI reference number is configured for a legal entity, you can assign a preferred
reference number at the legal entity level or at the employee level. A number assigned at the
employee level in People in Payroll > Tax Definitions in the Employee Payroll Tax section overrides
the number assigned at the legal entity level.
Before You Begin: Make sure you're familiar with the concepts in Employment Insurance in
Canada.
To set a custom EI factor for a legal entity:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Employment Insurance tab.
3. To create the EI rate group entry:
a. Click Add.
b. In the Rate Group field, enter the rate group name.
c. In the Reference Code field, enter the EI reference number that is four digits long.
d. Select the Is Default checkbox to set this entry as the default rate for the legal entity.
e. Click Save.
4. To enter an EI rate for the rate group entry:
a. In the Rates section, click Add.
b. In the Rate field, enter the EI factor. The rate for the default should be 1.4.
c. In the Start Date field, enter or select the effective start date for the EI factor.
d. (Optional) In the End Date field, enter an effective end date of the EI factor. Dayforce
only uses the factor during its effective date range up to the end date.
e. Click Save.
After you've created an EI factor entry, you can assign it to employees in People, in the Payroll
> Tax Definitions screen, in the Employee Payroll Tax section. Information and instructions are
available in Assign EI Rates to Employees.
Assign EI Rates to Employees
In some cases, a specific employee might be entitled to a different employment insurance rate.
Employee-level employment insurance factors can override the factors set at the legal entity level.

-- 392 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 393 of 0
Note: The employment insurance Override Parameters section is only displayed when you select
a Canadian employee.
You can record employment insurance factors for specific employees in the Employee Payroll Tax
section of the Payroll > Tax Definitions screen in People.
To record employment insurance rates for specific employees:
1. Go to People, open the employee profile, and click Payroll > Tax Definitions.
2. In the Employee Payroll Tax section, select the employer's employment insurance tax.
3. Click Add.
4. Enter the effective start date of the employment insurance rate in the Effective From field.
The application uses the factor only during its effective date range.
5. (Optional) Enter the effective end date of the employment insurance rate in the Effective To
field.
6. In the Override Parameters section under the effective dates, select the employee's
reduced rate group in the Reduced EI Rate drop-down list. This list is populated with the
EI rate groups configured in Org Setup. See Employment Insurance in Canada.
7. Click Save.
Configure Payroll Numbers for Specific Payments (Canada Only)
In some cases, your organization might choose to set up supplementary wage insurance to top
up the amounts paid by government when employees are laid off, go on parental leave, or are
absent from work for other legitimate reasons. This can require making and reporting separate
payments to private insurance programs.
To accommodate this, you will need the following:
Two separate RP (payroll) numbers - an existing one and another to apply to the specific
payments
One or more new rate groups
A new (or modified existing) check template
One or more new (or modified existing) payroll policies that include the Canadian
Employment Insurance Rate Rule that includes (or excludes) the appropriate check
template or templates
To set up payroll numbers:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
2. Locate and select the Canadian legal entity you want to work with.
3. Click the Employment Insurance tab, which loads a list of any existing rate groups and a
Rates section below that displays rates for the selected rate group.
4. Click Add.

-- 393 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 394 of 0
5. Enter a name in the Rate Group field.
6. In the Reference Code field, enter the payroll (RP) number.
7. In the Rates section, click Add to add a rate for this group.
8. Click Save.
After you have created the new rate groups, the next task is to determine which of your check
templates should be targeted to it. Typically, you will need to create a check template for this
purpose. Information about check templates and how to configure them is available in Check
Templates and Check Types.
Finally, you will need to create or update an existing payroll policy for Employment Insurance
rules. One policy must be configured to include your new rate group and include your new check
template. Another must be configured to include your other rate groups and to exclude your new
check template.
Link Legal Entities to Org Units
Each location in the organization configured as a site needs to be part of a configured legal entity
so that the employees working at each site are paid by the appropriate legal entity.
The application links legal entities to org units based on the legal entity's country, as well as the
country selected for the org unit's address in the Address tab within the Organization tab of Org
Setup > Organization.
To link legal entities to sites:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. Select the site you want to assign a legal entity to.
3. Ensure that the org unit has a country selected in the Country Code drop-down list in the
Address tab.
4. Click the Legal Entity tab.
5. Click Add.
6. Select an entity in the Legal Entity drop-down list.
7. If you have configured multiple worksite reporting, you can select the worksite number
applicable to the org unit in the Worksite Name [State-Number] drop-down list.
8. See Configure Multiple Worksite Reporting.
8. Define an effective date range for the legal entity assignment.
9. Click Save.
Historical Payroll Data Loading
When implementing Dayforce Payroll mid-year for an organization, all payroll information for the
year up to the point that the organization starts using Dayforce Payroll must be loaded in
Dayforce.

-- 394 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 395 of 0
Before You Begin: The audience for this content is Dayforce Services Representatives and
Implementation Consultants who have database access and can log in to the application using a
user role configured as a Service Role.
The following topics describe the process of loading historical payroll data into Dayforce before
switching over to Dayforce Payroll.
Set the Payroll History Load Type
Load Payroll Historical Data
Enter YTD Amounts of Employer Taxes for Canadian Legal Entities
Set the Payroll History Load Type
You must set the payroll history load type to load payroll history in Dayforce. You must have
database administrator access to perform this task.
There are three options for setting the database field PayrollHistoryLoadType on the
Client table:
0: No earning statement history was loaded.
1: Earning statement history was imported using the Earning Statement Import to show
historical earning statements prior to the payroll cut over date.
2: Earning statement history was imported using the Pay Run History Import as archived
pay runs and to show historical earning statements for those archived pay runs prior to the
payroll cut over date.
Set the Payroll History Load Type
To set the payroll history load type:
1. Set the database field PayrollHistoryLoadType on the Client table to enable the
features you require. The recommended setting is 2.
2. Set the PayrollCutoverDate field on the Client table to the date that marks the
boundary between payroll history imported from another application and live payroll data
generated and calculated by Dayforce Payroll.
3. Note: This date can be overridden at the pay group level in Pay Setup > Pay Group if a date
has been defined on the Client table.
Setting PayrollHistoryLoadType to 2 enables the following behaviors:
Record of Employment (ROEs)
ROEs read values from the MigratedROEData import for any periods prior to the cut-over date.
This data can be imported using the Dayforce Migrated ROE History Import.

-- 395 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 396 of 0
Earning Statements
All earning statements read imported data, if it exists, for pay periods prior to the cut-over date.
This data can be imported using the Dayforce Pay Run History Import.
Payroll Reports
Payroll reports are not available for periods that are prior to the cut-over date.
Employer YTD Taxes
For Canadian customers, there is no dependency on the PayrollHistoryLoadType value. At the
legal entity level for each Canadian pay group, the YTD taxes can be inserted for the migration
year and the Payroll Register Report, Payroll Summary Report, the Preview tab in Payroll, and any
year end files generated use the inserted amounts in the aggregation (at the pay group level
only) of YTD totals.
Load Payroll Historical Data
After the payroll history load type has been set, you can load payroll historical data using the
Dayforce Pay Run History Import interface specification.
Download the Dayforce Interface Specifications ZIP file and see the Dayforce Pay Run History
Import Specification document for information on how to use this interface.
Incomplete Payroll Historical Data
Functionality exists that allows Dayforce Service Representatives implementing Dayforce Payroll to
import incomplete historical data, missing either wage or tax amounts for different tax authorities,
and have Dayforce recalculate the pay run and generate the missing data based on the earnings
and deductions data imported, as well as Dayforce’s current configuration.
For example, the historical data being imported for an employee contains $1,200 in regular
earnings, $500 in bonus earnings, but no wage or tax amounts. Using this functionality, Dayforce
can calculate what employer and employee taxes were paid in the imported pay run. The
calculations are based on a variety of factors that must already be configured in Dayforce for the
recalculation to occur, including:
The employee must have a valid payroll policy applied to them that applies their earnings
and taxes.
The employee’s home and work address information.
The organizational hierarchy and legal entity configuration.
Earning and deductions are configured with the appropriate tax and compliance codes.

-- 396 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 397 of 0
The effectiveness of the recalculation of wages and taxes is tied to the proper and complete
configuration of Dayforce. To calculate the appropriate New York state taxes the employee pays
on the imported earnings, as an example, the employee’s home and work address must be
accurate in Dayforce.
It’s important to note that when migrating customers to Dayforce Payroll every effort should be
made to import the appropriate data from the previous payroll system; the functionality described
in this entry should only be used when the complete data does not exist.
Before You Begin: This functionality should only be used before Dayforce Payroll has gone live
and before any pay runs have been committed.
Note: This functionality requires database access and can only be performed by Dayforce
Services or Support Representatives accessing Dayforce using a user account configured as a
service role.
To import incomplete historical data:
1. Services Representatives can specify 0 in the fields in the import file where the data does
not exist. Specifically, record 0 in the Amount, CurrentWageBasis, and TotalTaxableWages
fields of the PayRunTax and PayRunTaxMethodDetail sections of the import file.
2. Dayforce still accepts the import file with a 0 value in these fields; the historical pay run is
imported as normal. If viewed or reported on in Payroll > Pay Run Management, the
imported pay run wouldn’t contain tax or wage amount for the tax authorities imported with 0
values in these fields.
2. A representative with database access needs to mark within the database that the pay run
can be recalculated. This is done by updating the IsSetup field to 1 in the PRPayRun table
for the imported pay run with incomplete data.
3. Log in to Dayforce using a service role.
4. Define for which tax authorities Dayforce should calculate tax and wage amounts within the
pay run. This functionality is controlled by the Generate Tax in Setup Pay Run and Generate
Wages in Setup Pay Run checkboxes in Payroll Setup > Payroll Taxes.
5. By default, these checkboxes are cleared for each tax authority. Select the appropriate
checkbox for each corresponding tax authority that was imported with missing data.
6. For example, if the imported pay run didn’t contain tax amounts for the California State
Withholding Tax, select its Generate Tax in Setup Pay Run checkbox to configure Dayforce
to calculate the tax amount based on the imported earnings.
7. Note: To perform these steps, you must access Dayforce using a service role. ‘Service role’
refers to a user role configured to access restricted areas of Dayforce. These roles are
limited to Dayforce Services and Support Representatives.
5. Run the Calculate Payroll background task in System Admin > Background Jobs, specifying
the pay run’s start and end date in the appropriate fields, selecting the run’s pay group in
the Pay Group drop-down list, and selecting the Include Committed Data Only checkbox.

-- 397 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 398 of 0
10. The task calculates the tax and wage amounts for the tax authorities with the Generate Tax
in Setup Pay Run and Generate Wages in Setup Pay Run checkboxes selected for any pay
run with IsSetup set to 1 in the database that intersects the date range specified in the
task’s Start Date and End Date parameters.
11. Dayforce creates additional records in the pay run results for the calculated amounts and
does not modify any imported values. This means that if a tax or wage amount for a tax
authority was imported and then incorrectly flagged for recalculation, by selecting either the
Generate Tax in Setup Pay Run or Generate Wages in Setup Pay Run checkbox, both the
imported and calculated amount records are included in the pay run results and the
amounts will be doubled.
12. Important: It’s crucial that only the taxes without tax or wage information that have been
imported with 0 values are calculated using this functionality.
13. Because calculated amounts never overwrite imported amounts, if there are imported
amounts that need to be corrected, the data needs to be reimported.
Enter YTD Amounts of Employer Taxes for Canadian Legal Entities
To keep their tax records accurate, Canadian legal entities that start using Payroll midyear in
Dayforce must enter amounts already paid for EI, CPP, QPP, and various provincial and territorial
health taxes. Many of these legal entities migrated to Dayforce Payroll midyear, or began by using
the WFM features and later added Payroll to their Dayforce system.
In the YTD Amount tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, you can enter the
employer deductions paid for the year to date before the payroll start date. These amounts must
include total taxable wages and limited taxable wages.
Before You Begin: This topic is meant for Implementation users. You should only use the
YTD Amount tab if you can't include one or more employer taxes in the Pay Run History Import as
part of the implementation process. For details about that import, download the Dayforce Interface
Specifications ZIP file and see the Dayforce Pay Run History Import Specification document.
If the legal entity has more than one pay group, create a record for each pay group and split the
amounts appropriately.
To enter YTD amounts for a migrating Canadian legal entity:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a Canadian legal entity.
2. Click the YTD Amount tab.
3. In the Pay Group drop-down list, select a pay group for which you want to enter previous
YTD amounts.
4. In the Funding Identifier drop-down list, select a funding identifier.
5. In the Migration Year drop-down list, select the year when the legal entity migrated to
Dayforce Payroll.

-- 398 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 399 of 0
6. In the Employer Employment Insurance (EI) section, click Add to create an entry and fill out
the following fields:
EI Rate Group: Select the EI rate group.
Tot Taxable Wage: Enter total taxable wage.
Ltd Taxable Wage: Enter limited taxable wage.
Taxes: Enter taxes.
7. In the Employer Canada Pension Plan (CPP) section, click Add to create an entry and fill out
the following fields:
EI Rate Group: Select the EI rate group.
Tot Taxable Wage: Enter total taxable wage.
Ltd Taxable Wage: Enter limited taxable wage.
Taxes: Enter taxes.
8. In the Health Taxes section, enter the insurable wages earned by the pay group's
employees in the Wages field of the appropriate taxes and premiums. For example, enter
the pay group's insurable wages for EI in the Wages field in the Employer Employment
Insurance (EI) section.
9. Enter the taxes paid for the pay group's employees in the Taxes field of the appropriate
taxes and premiums.
10. Click Save.
The health tax wage amounts affect whether the health taxes are applied. Each tax has an
exemption amount, so when wages are below that limit, the tax isn’t paid. When a legal entity
reaches the legislated threshold for each health tax, Dayforce automatically calculates and
applies the tax. The prior wage amount entered in the YTD Amount tab helps determine when that
threshold is reached for a legal entity in a migration year. These amounts are also reported in the
Payroll Register and Payroll Summary Report.
The Fiscal Calendar Feature
A fiscal calendar is essentially an annual accounting period that might or might not coincide with
the calendar year. Fiscal calendars are used for accounting, the general ledger, and for producing
annual statements. Payroll Setup > Fiscal Calendars is divided into two tabs: Fiscal Calendars,
where you can create and manage fiscal calendars; and Fiscal Years, where you can create and
manage fiscal years.
The concept of the fiscal year is associated with fiscal calendars. If your organization uses a fiscal
year (or accounting period, if you are in the United Kingdom) that does not coincide with the
calendar year, you have the option of configuring one or more fiscal calendars in Dayforce that
you can assign to legal entities in your organization.
You must configure a fiscal calendar if you intend to configure an earning or deduction grouping
using an accumulation type. Additional information is available in Deduction and Earning
Groupings.

-- 399 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 400 of 0
Important: One example of a fiscal calendar that does not correspond with the calendar year is
the fiscal calendar for the United Kingdom, which has a fiscal year of April 6 to April 5. However, it
isn’t mandatory to configure a fiscal calendar for UK legal entities in Dayforce as part of normal
setup for UK payroll.
As a rule, the fiscal calendar has nothing to do with year end processing for employee taxes.
To use a custom fiscal calendar in Dayforce, you must create a fiscal calendar and then assign a
legal entity to the year. There are two steps to this process:
Create a fiscal calendar in the Fiscal Calendar tab. See The Fiscal Calendar Tab.
Assign the calendar to a legal entity in Org Setup > Organization. See Assign a Custom
Fiscal Calendar to a Legal Entity.
A potential third step is the addition of a fiscal year to a fiscal calendar. See Fiscal Years Tab.
The Fiscal Calendar Tab
You use the Fiscal Calendars tab in Payroll Setup > Fiscal Calendar to create new or manage
existing fiscal calendars. The fiscal calendars created in this tab can be used in the Fiscal Years
tab.
The Fiscal Calendars tab contains the following fields and controls:
Name: The name for the fiscal calendar.
Description: The description of the fiscal calendar.
Month by Payroll Date: Specifies when a pay period is considered part of a month and has
two options:
Pay Date: The pay date determines the fiscal month. For example, if a pay period
ends in April, but has a pay date in May, then Dayforce considers the pay period to
belong to the fiscal month of May.
Pay Period End Date: The pay period end date determines the fiscal month. For
example, if a pay period ends in April, then Dayforce considers that pay period to
belong to the fiscal month of April.
Start Date: The start date for the fiscal calendar.
Starting Month: The starting month for the fiscal calendar.
Quarter Pattern: The pattern that determines the number of weeks in each of the quarters
for the fiscal year. For example, to set quarters to have two 4-week periods and one 5-week
period, select the 4-4-5 pattern. The options are:
4-4-5
4-5-4
5-4-4
Last Quarter Pattern: The pattern that determines the number of weeks in the last quarter of
the fiscal year. The options are:

-- 400 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 401 of 0
4-4-6
4-5-5
4-6-4
5-4-5
5-5-4
6-4-4
You can also change existing calendars in the Fiscal Calendar tab. When you select a calendar
row, its fields become editable. You can make any changes you need and click Save to commit
them.
Three other options are available for managing calendars:
Copy: Creates a duplicate instance of the selected calendar at the top of the list, where you
can make such changes as you need and click Save to save the new calendar.
Delete: You can delete a calendar by clicking this and then clicking OK when asked to
confirm the deletion.
Localize: Opens a dialog box where, by clicking Add, you insert a row to the localization list
that enables you to select the local language for the calendar from the Language drop-
down list, and to enter a localized Name for the calendar, and a Description.
In the following example screenshot, you can see a fiscal calendar with a starting month of May
that has a quarterly pattern of 4-4-5 at the bottom of the list.
You can add fiscal years to your new calendar in the Fiscal Years tab. See Fiscal Years Tab.
Add Fiscal Calendars
To add a fiscal calendar:
1. Go to Payroll Setup > Fiscal Calendar.
2. Click the Fiscal Calendars tab.
3. Click Add.
4. Enter a name and, optionally, a description for the fiscal calendar.
5. In the Month by Payroll Date drop-down list, select Pay Date or Pay Period End Date.
6. In the Start Date field, enter a start date for the fiscal calendar.
7. In the Starting Month drop-down list, select the month the calendar should begin with.
8. In the Quarter Pattern drop-down list, select the pattern of weeks for the quarters.

-- 401 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 402 of 0
9. In the Last Quarter Pattern drop-down list, you can optionally designate a different pattern
of weeks for the last quarter of the fiscal year.
10. Click Save.
When you click Save, the calendar is also available for use in the Fiscal Year tab.
Fiscal Years Tab
The Fiscal Years tab provides the means to manage fiscal years, and is accessed by going to
Payroll Setup > Fiscal Calendar and selecting the Fiscal Years tab. This tab contains the fiscal
calendar settings created for the fiscal years, and can contain a list of more than one year for a
selected fiscal calendar. After you have created the basic fiscal calendar entry, you can create a
calendar for individual years by specifying the start date, the starting month, and configuring a
pattern for the quarters.
At least one fiscal calendar must exist in the system before you can add and configure a fiscal
year. If there are no calendars available when you access the Fiscal Years tab, you will need to
add a calendar in the Fiscal Calendars tab. See The Fiscal Calendar Feature.
The Fiscal Years tab contains the following fields and controls:
On the left, the list of available fiscal calendars and the fiscal years currently grouped under
them.
A General section, displaying the following fields:
Name: The name for the fiscal year (required)
Fiscal Year: The fiscal year calendar year (for example, 2019) (required)
Begin Date: The starting date inherited from the fiscal calendar (required)
Fiscal Calendar: The fiscal calendar that the fiscal year is grouped under. This is an
important consideration because the fiscal year will inherit the calendar's start date
and year and weekly periods from its parent fiscal calendar.
Description: A general identifier for this fiscal year
A Periods in Year list, displaying:
Fiscal Period: The number of the fiscal period
Name: The period's name
Description: A general identifier for the period
Weeks In Period: The number of weeks in the period
Quarter: In which fiscal quarter the period occurs
Begin Date: The date the period begins
A Weeks in Period list, displaying:
Period Week: The number of the period week within the period
Fiscal Week: The number of the fiscal week within the period
Begin Date: The date the fiscal week begins

-- 402 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 403 of 0
Two additional options are available:
Delete: You can delete a year by clicking this and then clicking OK when asked to confirm
the deletion.
Localize: Clicking this opens a dialog box where, by clicking Add, you insert a row in the
localization list that enables you to select the local language for the year in the Language
drop-down list, enter a localized name for the year in the Name field, and enter a
description in the Description field.
Add Fiscal Years
To add a fiscal year:
1. Go to Payroll Setup > Fiscal Calendar.
2. Click the Fiscal Years tab.
3. Click Add and select the fiscal calendar you want the new fiscal year to be assigned to.
This selection preconfigures the Begin Date and Fiscal Calendar fields (and locks them),
and the Periods in Year and Weeks in Period lists.
4. Enter a name and, optionally, a description for the fiscal year.
5. In the Fiscal Year field, enter the year the fiscal year begins.
6. Click Save.
Assign a Custom Fiscal Calendar to a Legal Entity

-- 403 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 404 of 0
After you have created a fiscal calendar, you can assign it to one or more legal entities in your
organization. You might have created multiple fiscal calendar entries for your organization, but you
can only assign one fiscal calendar to a legal entity at a time.
Before You Begin: Ensure that you have competed the steps in the topic Add Fiscal Calendars.
To assign a fiscal calendar to a legal entity:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
2. Select a legal entity in the list.
3. Click the Fiscal Calendar tab under the list of legal entities.
4. Click Add.
5. In the Start Date field, enter or select a date for the legal entity to start using the fiscal
calendar.
6. In the Fiscal Calendar drop-down list, select the fiscal calendar to associate with the
selected legal entity.
7. Click Save.
Medicare-Only Legal Entities and Filers
Both Medicare-Only and Regular employers each have separate validation rules for creating legal
entities and employee records, committing payroll, and creating reports. The following tax types
are affected:
Fed MWT EE: Federal - Employee Medicare Tax
Fed MWT ER: Federal - Employer Medicare Tax
FICA EE: Federal - Employee Social Security Tax
FICA ER: Federal - Employer Social Security Tax
Regular filers must either be exempt from all of FICA EE, FICA ER, Fed MWT EE, and Fed MWT
ER, or exempt from none of these. It isn’t possible to exempt a legal entity or employee from one
or more of these taxes unless they are exempt from all of them. If you try, Dayforce returns the
following error message:
Copy
Invalid tax exemption attempted. Please ensure that Medicare ER, Medicare EE, SocS
Medicare-only filers must be exempt from FICA EE and FICA ER, but must not be exempt from
Fed MWT EE or Fed MWT ER. If you try, Dayforce returns the following error message:
Copy
Invalid tax exemption attempted. Please ensure that SocSec ER and SocSec EE are ma

-- 404 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 405 of 0
The validations described for Medicare-only legal entities and employees apply when the
employment code for the legal entity is configured for Medicare qualified government employment
– Form 941 in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup. You can find this by going to Org Setup > Org
Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, selecting a legal entity and clicking the Quarterly/Annual Reporting
Parameters tab.
If you are setting up the tax authorities for a legal entity that is exempt from Federal Medicare and
Social Security Taxes, or if you are setting up employees of a regular filing legal entity who are
exempt from Federal Medicare and Social Security taxes, you must select Exempt Tax And
Taxable Wages for each of the following tax types:
Fed MWT EE: Federal - Employee Medicare Tax
Fed MWT ER: Federal - Employer Medicare Tax
FICA EE: Federal - Employee Social Security Tax
FICA ER: Federal - Employer Social Security Tax
If all four aren’t set, Dayforce returns the following error message:
Copy
Invalid tax exemption attempted. Please ensure that Medicare ER, Medicare EE, SocS
If you are setting up the tax authorities for a Medicare-only legal entity, you must select the option
Exempt Tax And Taxable Wages for each of the following tax types:
FICA EE: Federal - Employee Social Security Tax
FICA ER: Federal - Employer Social Security Tax
Additional Information
When you run the US Wage and Tax report in Payroll > Overview or Payroll > Pay Run
Management, Dayforce verifies that the tax definitions are set up correctly for Medicare-only
employees. If the exempt tax and taxable wages aren’t set up correctly, the Validations page
displays the following error messages for employee and employer taxes:
Copy
{Legal Entity} EE tax is wage exempt but has YTD wages.
{Legal Entity} ER tax is wage exempt but has YTD wages.
Also, the US Wage and Tax report displays the following message on the Validations page:
Copy
Employees must either be exempt from all FICA taxes (FICA EE, FICA ER, Fed MWT EE,

-- 405 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 406 of 0
Verify Medicare-Only Settings for Legal Entities
To verify Medicare-Only settings for a legal entity:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters tab.
3. In the Employment Code drop-down list, ensure that Medicare Qualified Government
Employment - Form 941 is selected.
4. Click the Tax Authorities tab to view the taxes associated with the legal entity. When you
have selected a tax, view the Tax Setting section to the right of the list of tax authorities.
5. Verify that the Exempt Tax and Taxable Wages checkbox is selected.
6. Repeat steps 5 and 6 for the Federal Employee and Employer Medicare Taxes and Federal
Employee and Employer Social Security Taxes.
Verify Medicare-Only Settings for Employees
To verify Medicare-only settings for an employee:
1. Go to People, open the employee profile, and click Payroll > Tax Definitions.
2. In the Employee Payroll Tax section, select a tax.
3. Verify that the Exempt Tax And Taxable Wages checkbox is selected.
4. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for the Federal Employee and Employer Medicare Taxes and Federal
Employee and Employer Social Security Taxes.
Configure Mobile Org Units
To configure a site as a mobile org unit:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. Select a site-level org unit, and click the Properties tab.
3. Ensure that the Physical Location checkbox is selected.
4. Select the Is Mobile Org checkbox.
5. Click Save.
Configure Mobile Org Addresses
After you have configured a mobile org unit, you must also configure mobile org addresses.
To configure mobile org addresses:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Mobile Org Addresses.
2. Enter the name of the mobile org unit.
3. (Optional) Enter a description and reference code.
4. In the Color Code drop-down list, select a color to color-code the mobile org unit for easy
reference in the Mobile Org Schedules feature.

-- 406 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 407 of 0
5. Enter the address and ZIP/postal code.
6. Select the country and state or province in the drop-down lists.
7. Click the City selector icon and select the city associated with the mobile org address.
8. (Optional) Record the county in the County field.
9. Click Save.
Assign Mobile Org Addresses to Mobile Org Units
After you have saved one or more mobile org addresses, you must assign them to the mobile org
units to which they apply.
To assign mobile org addresses:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. Select a site-level mobile org unit and click the Address tab.
3. In the Mobile Org Addresses field, select the addresses associated with the mobile org unit.
4. Click Save, and then click Refresh Employee Taxes to ensure that employees are taxed
appropriately.
After you configure mobile org units and addresses, managers can configure associated
schedules in the Mobile Org Schedules feature. See Schedule Mobile Org Units in the Manager
Guide.
US Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters
The following topics briefly describe the parameters used by the Quarterly/Annual Reporting
Parameters sections in both Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and in the Payroll > Tax
Definitions screen in People:
US Legal Entity Specific Tax Reporting Parameters
US Employee-Specific Tax Reporting Parameters
US Legal Entity Specific Tax Reporting Parameters
Tax reporting parameters for legal entities are specified at the federal and state level. These
parameters are configured in the Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters sub-tab in Org Setup
> Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
Before You Begin: Not all states require additional parameters. The Jurisdiction drop-down list
includes only the states with options for additional filing requirements.
The following entries describe the options available depending on which option you select in the
Jurisdiction drop-down list for an entry in the Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters sub-tab.
USA Federal

-- 407 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 408 of 0
Kind of Employer
Drop-down list with options used for year-end reporting. Select an option in the drop-down list to
represent the legal entity’s employer type:
Federal Government if the legal entity is an entity of the US federal government
None Apply if none of the employer type options apply
State and Local Governmental Employer if the legal entity is part of state or local
government
State and Local Tax Exempt Employer if the legal entity a State or Local 501c organization
Tax Exempt Employer if the legal entity is a non-governmental 501c organization
Employment Code
Drop-down list with options used for year-end reporting. Select an option to represent the legal
entity’s employment code, as determined when the legal entity was registered:
Agriculture – Form 943 if the legal entity operates in the agricultural industry
Household – Schedule H if the legal entity operates in the household services industry
Medicare Qualified Government Employment - Form 941 if the legal entity is a state or local
government employer, and employs individuals whose services aren’t covered for Social
Security, but who are required to pay the Medicare-only portion of the Federal Insurance
Contributions Act tax (FICA)
Military – Form 941 if the legal entity has registered its FEIN as military (Code M)
Railroad – CT-1 if the legal entity will file the Employer's Annual Railroad Retirement Tax
Return
Regular – Form 941 if the legal entity submits form 941
Regular – Form 944 if the legal entity has been notified in writing by the IRS that annual form
944 must be filed instead of form 941
Terminated Business
Used for year-end reporting. Select this checkbox if the business has been closed or terminated.
Retirement Plan Eligible
Drop-down list used for year-end reporting. Select Yes if the legal entity’s employees are eligible
for a retirement plan, select No if they aren’t, or select [None] to have the application determine
employees' availability based on their contributions to a deferred compensation plan within the tax
year. This information populates the Box 13 – Retirement Plan checkbox on employees' W-2
forms.
Annual Tax Filing Other EIN

-- 408 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 409 of 0
Field for the former FEIN of a legal entity if the legal entity reorganizes mid-year and uses a new
FEIN number. This field populates the otherEIN field in the XML file.
For example, say a legal entity is reorganized in July: for the first six months of the year, the legal
entity's FEIN was 41-1234567. Then, after reorganization, the legal entity's FEIN was changed to
41-9876543. This would result in all of the YTD being moved to the last six months and filed under
the second FEIN (41-9876543). To ensure proper reporting, you would enter the FEIN for the first
six months of the year in the Annual Tax Filing Other EIN field.
Account Number on 1099R
Contractor Tax Form Type
1099 Payer Phone Number
The payer's telephone number you want to include in the 1099-M, 1099-NEC, and 1099-R forms.
Alaska
Alaska Geo Area Code
Used for quarter-end reporting, record the appropriate two-digit numeric geographic code in this
field; this is required for a legal entity if any of its employees' primary worksite is in Alaska during
the quarter and is based on the address of employees' primary work locations.
If you are unsure of the correct geographic code, see the Alaska Occupational Coding Manual,
which can be found at https://live.laborstats.alaska.gov/erg/codehelp.cfm.
By setting the code at the legal entity, you are defining a code that is applied, by default, to all of
the legal entity's employees; this is appropriate if the legal entity only has one worksite in Alaska,
or if the majority of employees primarily work at one worksite it is faster to set the code at the legal
entity, as a default, and apply different geo area codes for specific employees to override this
default, as necessary.
if the legal entity has several worksites in Alaska where its employees work, you need to specify
the appropriate geo area code at the employee-level.
Maine
Seasonal Period Start
Used for quarter-end reporting, select a start date for the seasonal period in this field.
Seasonal Period End
Used for quarter-end reporting, select an end date for the seasonal period in this field.

-- 409 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 410 of 0
Minnesota
Unit Number Reporting
Used for quarter-end reporting, set up if the legal entity has Unit Numbers for Sites (that is, the
Worksite Number field is populated) and must report the Unit Number on the Quarterly Returns.
Verify by going to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, selecting the legal entity, clicking
the Multiple Worksite Reporting sub-tab, and then, in the Worksites section, locate the Worksite
Number for the entry or entries.
Montana
Reimbursable ER
Used for quarter-end reporting if you are a Montana SUI Reimbursable client. If you are a Montana
Reimbursable client, go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, and in the
Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters sub-tab, in the Jurisdiction drop-down list, select
Montana, set a start date, and select the checkbox in the panel to the right to apply the
Reimbursable ER parameter. This tax replaces Wages to the Limit with the value of Full Subject
Wages in the quarterly filing for Montana.
This feature has been replaced by the Rpt Full Subject Wages tax setting in Org Setup > Org
Payroll Setup > Legal Entities in the Tax Authorities tab, and should no longer be used.
New Mexico
Unit Number Reporting
Used for quarter-end reporting, set up if legal entity has Unit Numbers for Sites (that is, the
Worksite Number field is populated) and must report the Unit Number on the Quarterly Returns.
Verify by going to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, selecting the legal entity, clicking
the Multiple Worksite Reporting sub-tab, and then, in the Worksites section, locate the Worksite
Number for the entry or entries.
New York
Dependent Medical Insurance
Used for quarter-end reporting, select this checkbox if the legal entity provides medical insurance
for employees’ dependents.
Northern Mariana Islands
Box D - CNMI NAICS Employee class code

-- 410 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 411 of 0
Used for the six-digit industry code of your business. For more information about the North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS), go to https://www.census.gov/naics/.
Vermont
Health Care Coverage
Used for quarter-end reporting, select this checkbox if the legal entity offers employees
healthcare coverage.
Wyoming
NAICS Employee class code
Used for quarter-end reporting, record the six-digit North American Industry Classification System
code in this field. This code is assigned to the legal entity by the state of Wyoming, and is specific
to the primary nature of the business.
US Employee-Specific Tax Reporting Parameters
This topic describes each of the possible federal and state parameters that might apply to an
employee. Not all states require additional parameters. The Jurisdiction drop-down list includes
only the states with additional filing requirements.
Tax reporting parameters for employees are specified at the federal and state level. These
parameters are configured by going to People, loading an employee profile, expanding the
Payroll > Tax Definitions screen, and locating the Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters section.
The Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters section contains a section in which you can add to
the list of quarterly/annual reporting parameters (if any) for the selected employee. When you
create an entry, or select an existing entry, the entry expands and displays an additional two
sections: General and Details. The choices you make in the General section determine what is
displayed in the Details section. The General section contains the following fields:
Jurisdiction: Drop-down list with federal and state options.
Effective From: Mandatory field that indicates the start date of the parameter
Effective To: Optional field that indicates the end-date of the parameter.
Standard Occupational Codes (SOC) are configured at the employer-level for each job in the SOC
Occupational Code field in Org Setup > Jobs and Assignments in the Jobs and Job Assignments
tab.
Federal
If you select Federal in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following options:

-- 411 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 412 of 0
Statutory Employee
Used for year end reporting, you need to select this checkbox for statutory employees whose
earnings are subject to social security and Medicare taxes but not subject to federal income tax
withholding.
Do not select this checkbox for common-law employees. There are workers who are independent
contractors under the common-law rules but are treated by statute as employees. They are called
statutory employees and include:
A driver who distributes beverages (other than milk), or meat, vegetable, fruit, or bakery
products; or who picks up and delivers laundry or dry cleaning if the driver is the employer's
agent or is paid on commission.
A full-time life insurance sales agent whose principal business activity is selling life
insurance or annuity contracts, or both, primarily for one life insurance company.
An individual who works at home on materials or goods that the employer supplies and that
must be returned to the employer if the employer also furnishes specifications for the work
to be done.
A full-time traveling or city salesperson and turns in orders to the employer from
wholesalers, retailers, contractors, or operators of hotels, restaurants, or other similar
establishments. The goods sold must be merchandise for resale or supplies for use in the
buyer's business operation. This work must be the salesperson's principal business activity.
SS/MED Religious Exemption (Form 4029)
Used for year end reporting, select this checkbox if the employee has submitted Federal Form
4029 (Application for Exemption From Social Security and Medicare Taxes and Waiver of
Benefits).
Retirement Plan Eligible
Used for year end reporting, select 'Yes' if the employee is eligible for a retirement plan, or 'No' if
they aren’t . Select '[None]', and the application determines the employee's availability based on
their contributions to a deferred compensation plan within the tax year. This information populates
the Box 13 – Retirement Plan checkbox on the employee's W-2 forms.
This can be used to override the parameter set at the legal entity level.
TTOC Code
Field to select a Treasury Tipped Occupation Code.
Second TTOC Code
Field to select an additional Treasury Tipped Occupation Code.

-- 412 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 413 of 0
Alaska
If you select Alaska in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
Alaska Geo Area Code
Used for quarter end reporting, record the two-digit numeric geographic code in this field if the
employee's primary worksite is in Alaska during the quarter. If the employee worked at different
locations during the quarter, code for the most recent primary worksite. If the employee travels
statewide, for example as a sales representative, specify the code for the location in which the
employee spends the most time.
If you are unsure of the correct geographic code, see the Alaska Occupational Coding Manual,
which can be found at https://live.laborstats.alaska.gov/erg/codehelp.cfm.
Arkansas
If you select Arkansas in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
Seasonal Employee Code
Used for quarter end reporting, record the seasonal employee code assigned by the state of
Arkansas. These codes are given out by the Department of Workforce Services and can be 1-2
characters.
California
If you select California in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
State Disability Insurance
Used for quarterly reporting, select a combination of state disability insurance and state
unemployment insurance (SUI):
Select Personal Income Tax Only if the employee is having only personal income tax
withheld.
Select State Plan for Dis Ins and SUI if the employee has a state plan for disability insurance
and state unemployment insurance.
Note: Typically this will apply to the vast majority of the employees.
Select State Plan for Dis Ins, exempt from SUI if the employee has a state plan for disability
insurance, and is exempt from state unemployment insurance.
Select State Plan for SUI –Public Entity Employees Only if the employee is a public entity
employee, and has a state plan for unemployment insurance.
Select State Plan for SUI, exempt from Dis Ins if the employee has a state plan for
unemployment insurance, but is exempt from disability insurance.

-- 413 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 414 of 0
Select State Plan for SUI, Vol Plan for Dis Ins if the employee has a state plan for
unemployment insurance, and a voluntary or private plan for disability insurance.
Select Voluntary Plan for Disability Insurance, Exempt from SUI if the employee has a
voluntary or private plan for disability insurance, and is exempt from state unemployment
insurance.
This parameter is used for employees reporting Californian SUI or disability wages; typically an
employee that has earned money and paid taxes in California during the quarter.
Indiana
If you select Indiana in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
Seasonal Employee Code
Used for quarter end reporting, record the seasonal employee code assigned by the state of
Indiana. These codes are given out by the Department of Workforce Development and can be 1-2
characters.
Maine
If you select Maine in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following options:
Seasonal Period Start
Used for quarter end reporting, select a start date for the seasonal period in this field.
Seasonal Period End
Used for quarter end reporting, select an end date for the seasonal period in this field.
Massachusetts
If you select Massachusetts in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following
option:
Corporate Officer
Used for year end reporting, select this checkbox if the employee is a corporate officer.
Minnesota
If you select Minnesota in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
Corporate Officer
Used for year end reporting, select this checkbox if the employee is a corporate officer.
New Jersey

-- 414 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 415 of 0
If you select New Jersey in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
State Disability Insurance
Used for quarterly reporting, select this checkbox if the employee is eligible for state disability
insurance.
New Mexico
If you select New Mexico in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
Corporate Officer
Used for year end reporting, select this checkbox if the employee is a corporate officer.
Ohio
If you select Ohio in the Jurisdiction field, the General section shows the following option:
RITA Qualified Remote Work Location
Used for reporting the Ohio Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) annual return information for
employees who work virtually or as a telecommuter. Select the RITA Qualified Remote Work
Location checkbox for employees in a RITA locality and who are in a qualifying remote work
location. A qualifying work location is either the employee’s home or another employer-approved
location that isn't the employee’s home, such as a virtual worksite. When this checkbox is
selected, this setting replaces reporting as a virtual employee or telecommuter for Ohio
employees.
Puerto Rico
If you select Puerto Rico in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following option:
State Disability Insurance
Used for quarterly reporting, select this checkbox if the employee is eligible for state disability
insurance.
Date on Which Employee Started to Receive Puerto Rico Pension
The date when the employee started receiving their Puerto Rico Pension annuity.
Employee Classification
The following employee classifications are part of Form 499R-2/W-2PR. For more information
about these classification types, go to the Puerto Rico Department of Treasury website
https://hacienda.pr.gov.

-- 415 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 416 of 0
Employee classifications in the Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters section for Puerto
Rico employees
Employee Classification Description
Employee Classification A:
Qualified Physician
Indicates the employee was paid to provide services as a
qualified physician.
Employee Classification B:
Domestic Services
Indicates the employee was paid to provide domestic
services.
Employee Classification C:
Agricultural Labor Indicates the employee was paid to do agricultural work.
Employee Classification D:
Minister of a Church
Indicates the employee was paid to provide services as a
church minister.
Employee Classification E:
Health Professionals
Indicates the employee was paid as a licensed health
professional.
Employee Classification F:
Direct Employment Indicates the employee was hired by a qualified business.
Employee Classification F: Total
Hours Worked
The total number of hours in a year worked by the employee
classified under Employee Classification F.
Employee Classification F: EIN
of Exempt Business
The Employer Identification Number (EIN) of the employer of
the employee classified under Employee Classification F.
Employee Classification G:
Other Indicates a classification group not covered by the A to F.
Rhode Island
If you select Rhode Island in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following
option:
State Disability Insurance
Used for quarterly reporting, select this checkbox if the employee is eligible for state disability
insurance.
Washington
If you select Washington in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following
options:
Corporate Officer
Used for year end reporting, select this checkbox if the employee is a corporate officer.
Wages with No Hours Code

-- 416 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 417 of 0
Used for quarterly reporting, select this checkbox if the employee has current quarter-to-date
State Unemployment Insurance (SUI) wages and zero work hours. The state of Washington
requires you to add a reason for the zero work hours in the quarter end file.
Important: To ensure accurate reporting in Dayforce, this state parameter must have an effective
end date. The end date must be the end of the current quarter.
Exemption Letter Provided
Used to configure an employee who is exempt from contributing to the Washington Cares Fund.
Select the checkbox when an employee has an exemption approval letter from the Employment
Security Department (ESD).
Configuring an employee who is exempt from contributing to the Washington Cares Fund in
Dayforce is a multi-step process. For more information about how to configure an employee
exemption, see the Configure Employee Exemption for WA Cares Fund (US) Dayforce Knowledge
Base article. If you can’t access the article at this link, contact your Dayforce administrator.
Wyoming
If you select Wyoming in the Jurisdiction field, the General section displays the following options:
Employee Class Code
Drop-down list with quarter end reporting options for employees that are State Unemployment
Insurance (SUI) exempt. Select an exemption class code in the drop-down list:
Corporate Officer if the employee is exempt from state unemployment insurance because
they are a corporate officer within the legal entity. If you select this, the application loads the
Corporate Officer Type drop-down control.
Government if the employee is exempt from state unemployment insurance because they
are a government employee.
Inmate if the employee is exempt from state unemployment insurance because they are an
inmate.
Job Training Program if the employee is exempt from state unemployment insurance
because they are part of a job training program.
School to Work if the employee is exempt from state unemployment insurance because they
are part of a school to work program.
Volunteer if the employee is exempt from state unemployment insurance because they are a
volunteer.
Welfare if the employee is exempt from state unemployment insurance because they are a
welfare recipient.
Corporate Officer Type

-- 417 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 418 of 0
Drop-down list that is displayed if the Corporate Officer option was selected from the Employee
Class Code drop-down list. Select a corporate officer type:
Other Officer if the employee is a corporate officer type that isn’t included in the list of
options.
President if the employee is President.
Secretary if the employee is Secretary.
Treasurer if the employee is Treasurer.
Vice President if the employee is Vice President.
NAICS Employee Class Code
In the NAICS Employee Class Code field, enter the six-digit NAICS (North American Industry
Classification System) code in this field. This code is assigned by the state of Wyoming and is
specific to the primary nature of the employee's job.
Typically this is set at the legal entity level and applies to all employees of the legal entity.
Populate this field only to override the legal entity value for the specific employee, if necessary.
Configure Organizational Groups and Subgroups
This section describes the first step to configuring your organization: configuring the groups and
subgroups that make up your organizational hierarchy. You need to configure the top of your
organization and the organizational groups and subgroups, often referred to as org units, that
make up your organization, such as districts and regions, so that the other organizational
elements can be assigned to the appropriate groups in the organization.
It’s important to define and assign levels in a logical manner to the different organizational units
within the organizational hierarchy. Levels don’t have to be parallel, meaning under the Corporate
level (the top of the hierarchy). You can define an organizational unit as a district, with several
sites underneath it, as well a region, which has several districts, each with their own sites
underneath.
For example, the first or top level is the Corporate level but the second level (or the units directly
underneath the first) can be both a district and a region. In this sense they aren’t parallel: there is
an org unit 1 level down from Corporate that is a district but there are also org units 2 levels down
from Corporate that are districts.
Dayforce Payroll uses the levels assigned to org units to group payroll data in some of its reports.
To determine grouping, Dayforce starts at an employee’s site and traverses up the tree until it
finds the org unit with the org level the report is being grouped by and groups the employee’s
data under that org unit.

-- 418 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 419 of 0
As a result, it’s important to logically structure the organizational hierarchy and assign appropriate
levels to the org units in it.
You can configure as many org units as you need to mirror your organization’s structure in Org
Setup.
To configure organizational groups and subgroups:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. In the organization hierarchy, select the item under which to create your entry from the
organizational hierarchy. If you’re creating the first org unit, you won’t have any existing org
units to select from, and you can continue to step 3.
3. Click Add.
4. In the slide-out panel that opens, enter the unit’s name and description.
5. (Optional) Select or search for which item in your organization you want the new item to be
under in the Parent Org Unit drop-down list. By default, the new item’s parent is the item you
selected in the organization tree. For the top of the organization, the Parent Org Unit is itself.
6. Click the Effective From calendar icon and select the date on which the unit is an active part
of your organization. By default, Dayforce uses today’s date.
7. (Optional) Select the date on which the location is no longer a part of your organization in
the Effective To field. By default, this field is blank and the new item won’t be removed from
your organizational chart unless you delete it.
8. Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field. Cross-reference codes are used
to export data from Dayforce to other applications and must be unique for each org unit.
9. Important: Don’t use special characters such as hyphens in cross-reference codes. This
can cause an issue where employees are unable to record time in Work > Timesheet.
Dayforce validates the location reference code value against existing values and you can’t
save duplicate values when you edit an existing location or create a location.
9. In the Level drop-down list, select the new item’s level in your organization. By default, new
items can be classified under one of the following levels:
Corporate: Represents the top level of your organization. Typically, you wouldn’t add
new items with the corporate level.
Corporate Site: Represents a physical location where employees at the top of your
organization work; a head office.
District: Represents a group of sites.
On-Site Department: Represents a physical area within a location.
Region: Represents a group of districts. Typically, regions are the levels directly
underneath the corporate level.
Site: Represents a physical location.
10. You can configure additional org levels as required. See Configure Additional Organization
Levels.

-- 419 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 420 of 0
10. Select which week day is considered the start of the week from the Start Day of Week drop-
down list. The application uses this value to determine the start day of the week for the
calendars in Work, Schedules, and Timesheets.
11. Note: When the Start Day of Week setting isn’t specified in the org setup for a user’s primary
location, Dayforce uses the configuration specified in the First Day of Week setting in Site
Setup > Client. If Start Day of Week and First Day of Week have been specified, the
calendars show the Start Day of Week. If both the Start Day of Week and First Day of Week
aren’t specified, the calendars show Sunday as the first day of the week.
11. Skip the following fields for now, because they’re used only for locations, which you will
specify later in the organizational groups definition process: Department, Zone, Comparable
Org Unit, Physical Location, Opening Date, Closing Date, Ledger Code, and Clock Code.
12. Note: For the top of your organizational hierarchy, regions, districts, or any other group or
sub-group in the hierarchy, leave these fields blank. You should select the Physical Location
checkbox only for organizational units with the Site and Corporate Site Org Level.
12. Click Save.
Add Org Unit Email Addresses
If your organization uses HireRight for candidate screening, you might want to add an org unit
email address for your onboarding and recruiting workflows.
To add an org unit email address:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and select an org unit.
2. Click the Contact tab.
3. In the Email field, enter the email address to use when sending the manager section of
Form I-9 for completion.
Configure Additional Organization Levels
You can configure additional org levels to associate with units in your organization, in the Levels
tab of Org Setup > Organization.
After you configure org levels, they can be selected in the Org Level drop-down list, in the
General subtab of Org Setup > Organization. Org levels are supported by the HR Export
interfaces, using dynamic export tokens to return values associated with the configured levels.
To define a custom organization level:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. Click the Levels tab, and then click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description for the org level.
4. Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field.
5. Reference codes are used to export data from Dayforce to other applications.

-- 420 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 421 of 0
6. Important: Don’t use special characters such as hyphens in cross-reference codes. This
can cause an issue where employees can’t record time in Work > Timesheet.
5. Click Save.
Override the Coordinates of Site Addresses
Dayforce uses a third-party geocoding tool to ensure the accuracy of the addresses you've
entered. The tool generates a set of coordinates when it validates the address. These coordinates
are then used to determine the appropriate tax jurisdiction for payroll calculations. When needed,
you can override the validated coordinates for site-level addresses in Org Setup > Organization in
the Organization tab.
Note: The override coordinates feature should only be used for US states with local government
taxes.
Before You Begin:
Make sure that you're familiar with the general concepts in Configure Organizational Groups
and Subgroups
Configure the site addresses for your organization.
Role feature access: Org Setup > Org Setup > Organization > Organization
To add override coordinates for a legal entity's location address:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. In the Organization tab, expand the site address that you want to update.
3. Select the Geo Points Override checkbox.
4. Enter the override coordinates in Latitude and Longitude. The accepted range of values in
Latitude is between +90 and-90. The accepted range of values in Longitude is between
+180 and -180.
5. Important: Dayforce isn’t responsible for the accuracy of the override coordinates you enter.
5. Click Save.
To ensure that the correct tax jurisdiction is used in the payroll calculations, Dayforce clears the
override coordinates when you change any of the following fields in the location address: Country
Code, State/Province, Address, Address Line 2, County, City, and Zip/Postal Code.
Configure Departments
This section describes how to set up your organization’s generic departments in Dayforce.
Departments contain the jobs employees are scheduled to work and are linked to zones, which
receive a portion of a location’s labor budget.

-- 421 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 422 of 0
It’s important to configure all of the different departments that can be in your organization’s various
locations as Dayforce uses departments and zones to organize schedules, jobs, and labor
budgets.
Departments are used in job assignment configuration. See Jobs and Job Assignments
Background.
You can also import departments instead of manually adding them. See Org Setup Import and
Export Configuration.
To add a department:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Departments tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter the department’s name and description.
4. Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field. Reference codes are used to
export data to other applications. These codes must be unique and must not contain
special characters.
5. Click Save.
Zones Configuration
In Dayforce, zones are used to organize a location for labor planning, scheduling, and security
access. Zones are an area in a location that uses part of the labor budget and has employees
scheduled to work in it. A common example of a zone is an area in a store that sells similar
products, like the Home Theater zone in an electronics store. However, a zone doesn't need to
generate sales or transactions. A stock room in a clothing store is a zone because employees are
scheduled to work in it and those labor hours are budgeted for, but the zone doesn't directly
generate sales. Similarly, organizations in the manufacturing industry wouldn't consider sales
when deciding what areas of a plant need to be zones. They might have a zone for each line in
the plant.
Although you need to configure a zone for each staffed area in your location, each location
doesn’t need to have a zone. Zones might only describe certain locations in your organization. For
example, in a hotel chain, the Lounge zone needs to be configured to plan, schedule, and track
the performance of the bar and lounge in the company's high-end hotels. Because the bar and
lounge area are only present in high-end hotels, the Lounge zone is only assigned to certain
locations.
Assigning appropriate zones helps users manage their locations. A manager of a hotel without a
lounge wouldn't want it as a department on the hotel's schedule or see it in the labor budget in
Plan, as the hotel won't use any of its labor budget staffing an area it doesn’t have.

-- 422 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 423 of 0
You can organize your locations into as many zones as needed. For example, a specialty audio
retail store that tracks sales between headphones, mini-systems, speakers, and receivers would
need at least four zones configured in Dayforce. The store could also have zones for customer
service, receiving, or any other staffed area.
All zones configuration, from creating zones and zones packages to linking them to
merchandising departments, is completed in the Zones Configuration feature.
When deciding how many zones locations require, keep a few items in mind:
Zones and departments might be configured with a one-to-one ratio.
A single zone can contain multiple departments. This allows for the management of a larger
employee base than just a single department per zone.
Zones are the lowest or most granular unit used in Dayforce for planning, forecasting, and
scheduling.
The general process flow for configuring zones in Dayforce consists of the following:
Create Zones
Create Zone Packages
Create Merchandising Departments
Link Merchandising Departments to Zones
Create Zones
To create zones:
1. Go to Org Setup > Zones Configuration and click the Zones tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description of the zone.
4. In the Organization field, specify where the zone can be assigned in your organization by
selecting the checkbox next to the appropriate locations in the organizational tree.
5. In the Efficiency Score Method drop-down list, select the option you want to use for
calculating the zone’s efficiency score. A zone's efficiency score is a percentage score that
reflects how close its schedule matches the labor demand. A zone’s efficiency score is a
percentage score that reflects how close its schedule matches the labor demand. You can
select one of the following options:
DayOnly: Dayforce compares the number of employees scheduled to the labor
demanded for the day.
QuarterHourOnly: Dayforce compares the number of employees scheduled to the
labor demand at each quarter hour. Any time the zone is understaffed or overstaffed
is subtracted from this score.
BothServiceInsideHOO: Dayforce uses both quarter hour and daily coverage scores
inside the location's hours of operation. However, outside the hours of operation,

-- 