ce populates the Name and Description columns according to your selection.
4. Click Save.
Documentation and Translation Coverage
Dayforce provides some related content in the core languages such as:
Selected Dayforce administrator and user guides

-- 114 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 115 of 0
Release notes
Add a Logo or Signature
You can upload logos and signature images that are shown on benefit summaries, earning
statements, and US checks in Site Setup > Client, in the Images tab.
When you add a logo or signature image, you can select one of the following Image Type choices
for the image:
Benefit Summary Logo
Check Signature US : This option is available for the United States only. This option is used
for normal and additional checks, as well as onsite checks that don’t use pre-printed check
stock. This option also allows you to add an image of a signature to be used when you print
onsite checks using pre-printed onsite check stock. See Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity
and Client Properties - Payroll.
Client Branding Logo: This option shows as the branded logo in the toolbar if Dayforce is
configured to show it. See Brand the Application.
Compensation Logo
ESS Earning Statement Canada
ESS Earning Statement Legal Entity: This option allows you to assign a logo that can
override any logo assigned to a country in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity,
where logo names are set up in images and available for selection.
ESS Earning Statement US
Login Screen Logo
Performance Logo
Printed Earning Statement Logo US: This option also shows as the employer logo on printed
checks.
Recruiting Logo
Each image type is subject to specific criteria:
Check Signature US images and Printed Earning Statement US logo images must be in
JPG or PNG format.
Dimensions for Check Signature US images and Printed Earning Statement US logo images
must be 600 x 225 pixels with a resolution of 300 DPI (dots per inch).
Note: For best results, you should upload black and white images for printed earning statement
logos, check signatures, and check logos.
To add logos or signatures:
1. Go to Site Setup > Client and click the Images tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description of the logo.

-- 115 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 116 of 0
4. In the Image Type drop-down list, select the image type according to the document in which
the image will appear.
5. Enter a start date and, optionally, an end date to have Dayforce use the selected image
type for a specific period of time.
6. (Optional) Enter a comment.
7. In the Edit Image drop-down list, click Upload.
8. In the File Upload dialog box, select the file type and image file and then click Open.
Dayforce uploads the selected image file and shows a preview of it in the Image section.
9. Note: You can upload only JPG and PNG files.
9. Click Save.
Brand the Application
You can further customize Dayforce by displaying your organization's logo in the toolbar, to the
right of the menu icon. The branding property is enabled by default. When you log in to Dayforce,
the application shows your company logo on the login screen and the main toolbar by default.
To upload a branding logo:
1. Go to Site Setup > Client and click the Images tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description of the logo.
4. In the Image Type drop-down list, click Client Branding Logo.
5. Enter a start date and, optionally, an end date to have Dayforce use the selected image for
a specific period of time.
6. (Optional) Enter a comment.
7. In the Edit Image drop-down list, click Upload.
8. Select the file type and the appropriate image file and click Open. Dayforce uploads the
selected image file and shows a preview of it in the Image section.
9. Note: You can upload only JPG and PNG files.
9. Click Save.
Important: When users accessing Dayforce with a Hub-enabled role click the logo, it navigates to
Hub or Home, depending on what is configured. The logo is either your company logo, if you
uploaded one, or the Dayforce logo.
System Admin
The System Admin feature is used to configure some general settings for your organization.
Before You Begin: Some of the fields or features described in this topic might be available only to
users with Support or Service roles. For more information, contact your implementation consultant.
The following is a list of some of the features available in System Admin:

-- 116 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 117 of 0
User: Used to manage users. See User Configuration.
Roles: Used to manage user roles. See User Roles.
Background Jobs: Used to manage background jobs. See Background Jobs Configuration.
Client Properties: Used to configure various client (customer) instance settings. See System
Admin > Client Properties.
Password Policy: Used to manage password policies. See Password Policies.
IP Network Restrictions: Used to manage IP network restrictions. See IP Network
Restrictions.
System Admin > Client Properties
In System Admin > Client Properties, you can configure several client settings that control specific
behavior in your instance of Dayforce. These settings can have a large impact on Dayforce
functionality.
The following is a list of tabs in System Admin > Client Properties with brief descriptions for each:
Contacts: Contains information for different contacts and contact types for your organization
(for example, Benefits Admin, Payroll Admin, ROE Contact, and ROE Issuer).
Addresses: Contains address information for your organization.
Properties: Contains sections that describe client properties:
General: Contains details used by multiple features in Dayforce to control application
behavior.
Messages: Contains properties used by Dayforce to control how and when certain
messages are shown.
Employee: Contains properties for employee details used by HR.
Timesheet: Contains properties that control how Dayforce shows information on
timesheets.
Time and Attendance: Contains properties used by WFM for time and attendance.
Scheduling: Contains properties that control how Dayforce schedules employees and
shows information in Schedules.
Multi-Week Calendar: Contains properties that control how information is shown in
Multi-Week Calendar.
Payroll: Contains properties used by the Payroll feature to control payroll processing
behavior.
Dayforce Wallet: Contains properties that control Dayforce Wallet functionality.
Reporting: Contains properties that control some aspects of ad hoc reporting
functionality in Dayforce.
Benefits: Contains properties that control Benefits functionality.
Position Management: Contains properties that control Position Management
functionality in Dayforce.
Security: Contains properties that control security related functionality in Dayforce.

-- 117 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 118 of 0
UI Modernization: Contains properties for enabling the updated user interface (UI).
Group Members Generation: Contains properties related to group member generation
in HR Admin > Groups.
Billing And Support: Contains billing information related to your organization. This tab is
typically available only to Dayforce Customer Support users.
Enter Contact Information
In System Admin > Client Properties, in the Contacts tab, you can set various contacts for your
organization. For example, the contacts that receive the delivery packages generated by
Dayforce, Inc.. Delivery packages can be sent to multiple contacts in the organization and can
contain reports, direct deposit pay stubs, or physical checks to be distributed. You can also set
other contact types here, including ROE Contacts and ROE Issuers (for Canadian payroll).
To enter contacts for an organization:
1. Go to System Admin > Client Properties.
2. In the Contacts tab, click Add.
3. In the Contact Type drop-down list, select the type of contact you're configuring.
4. Enter the contact details using the available fields and drop-down lists.
5. In the Communication Type drop-down list, select the contact's communication type.
Select Customer Support/Year End to receive emails from the Support team regarding
year end activities.
No other types are used at this time.
6. Click Save.
Add an ROE Issuer or ROE Contact
Canadian ROE forms require you to enter the name and contact information of the person in your
organization who can provide more information about the ROE form, if needed. According to
Service Canada, an ROE contact should be able to provide information about the reason for
issuing the ROE, and an ROE issuer should be able to answer questions about the information on
the ROE.
You need to add people and their contact details in Dayforce so that this information appears on
the generated ROE forms.
To add a person as an ROE issuer or an ROE contact for the organization:
1. Add the ROE contact assignment role feature to the user role that is used to configure the
ROE contacts and issuers.
a. Go to System Admin > Roles and select a role in the list.
b. Click the Features tab.
c. Under Payroll Setup, select the ROE Contact Assignment checkbox.
d. Click Save.

-- 118 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 119 of 0
2. Go to System Admin > Client Properties and click the Contacts tab.
3. Click Add.
4. In the Contact Type drop-down list, select ROE Issuer or ROE Contact.
5. Add the contact name, phone, country, and language details in their respective fields.
6. In the Communication Type drop-down list, select All to receive emails from the Dayforce
support team about product updates.
7. Click Save.
8. To make this person the default ROE issuer or contact for the organization (if you previously
added a default issuer or contact and do not want to change this setup, you can skip this
step):
a. Go to Payroll Setup > ROE Contact Assignment.
b. Expand ROE Contacts or ROE Issuers and select the contact that you just added.
Under Assignment, select the Default checkbox.
c. Click Save.
You can also assign ROE issuers and contacts to specific pay groups so that ROE forms list
specific contact information for different pay groups. See Configure Multiple ROE Contact
Assignments.
Configure Multiple ROE Contact Assignments
An organization can have more than one person who issues ROE forms or who is designated as
the ROE contact. In Dayforce, you can assign multiple pay groups to one person, assign specific
pay groups to specific people, or delegate a default ROE contact and ROE issuer for all pay
groups. A default ROE contact and issuer ensures pay groups without an assigned contact or
issuer will not be overlooked. See Add an ROE Issuer or ROE Contact.
For example, if your organization has four pay groups (A, B, C, and D):
You can assign person X to be the ROE contact and issuer for pay groups A and B.
Person Y isn’t only assigned as the default contact and issuer for the organization, they are
also the contact and issuer for the pay group C.
Pay group D does not have a contact or issuer assigned to it. Because person Y is the
default ROE contact and issuer for the organization, this means person Y will be listed as a
contact and issuer for pay group D.
For more information on working with ROEs in Payroll, see Record of Employment (ROE) in the
Payroll Administrator Guide.
You can configure either the ROE contact or ROE issuer in the ROE Contact Assignment screen
by clicking Payroll Setup > ROE Contact Assignment.
To configure a specific ROE contact or issuer to one or more pay groups:

-- 119 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 120 of 0
1. Add the ROE contact assignment role feature to the user role that is used to configure the
ROE contacts and issuers:
a. Go to System Admin > Roles and select a role in the list.
b. Click the Features tab.
c. Under Payroll Setup, select the ROE Contact Assignment checkbox.
d. Click Save.
2. Add the contact details in System Admin > Client Properties in the Contacts tab. See Add
an ROE Issuer or ROE Contact.
3. Go to Payroll Setup > ROE Contact Assignment.
4. Assign one or more pay groups to an ROE contact:
a. Expand ROE Contacts and select the assignee.
b. Under Assignment, in Pay Groups, select one or more pay groups.
5. Assign one or more pay groups to an ROE issuer:
a. Expand ROE Issuers and select the assignee.
b. Under Assignment, in Pay Groups, select one or more pay groups.
6. Click Save.
Enter Address Information
You can set various addresses for your organization in the Addresses tab of System Admin
> Client Properties. In addition, you can set a primary or corporate address for your organization
here.
To enter addresses for an organization:
1. Go to System Admin > Client Properties and click the Addresses tab.
2. Click Add.
3. In the Address Type drop-down list, select an address type.
4. Enter the address details in the available fields.
5. Select the Main checkbox if the address is the organization's head office or primary
address.
6. Click Save.
General
The settings in the General section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties are
application-wide and don’t relate specifically to timesheets, schedules, or employee information.
Display Mobile User Profile Image
Controls whether user profile images are shown in the app.
Enforce Authorization For Self

-- 120 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 121 of 0
Enforce a user’s access authorizations when they use browser development tools with Dayforce.
By default, this checkbox isn’t selected.
Allow Pay Zone Region Import to partially process
Controls whether Dayforce continues to process the pay zone region import if it encounters an
error. When this checkbox is cleared, Dayforce stops processing the import when it encounters an
error.
Do not populate the base rate on loading the Rehire form
Select this checkbox to set the Base Rate field on the Rehire forms to 0 when you select an
employee in the Terminated Employee Search drop-down list. If you don't enable this client
property, the field is populated with the employee's last base rate or minimum wage for their
location and position. This client property affects the following forms:
Rehire
Rehire (Position Management)
Rehire with Contract
Rehire with Contract (Position Management)
Display User Profile Image
Controls whether Dayforce shows profile images.
Allow employees to identify their pronouns
Adds the edit icon to the employee profile header in Profile. When users click the edit icon, the
Share your pronouns dialog box opens and employees can enter and save their pronouns for
display across Dayforce.
Apply Schedule Rule Policy validation to Work Contract
When enabled, Dayforce applies employees’ schedule rule policy to any changes that you make
to their work pattern details in People, in the Work > Work Contracts screen.
Allow saving Work Contracts if schedule rules are violated
Used only if you enable the Apply Schedule Rule Policy validation to Work Contract client
property. When enabled, you can save changes to employees’ work pattern details that violate
their schedule rule policy. See Work > Work Contracts in the HR Administration Guide.
From e-mail used for alerts
The email address shown in the From field for any email alerts sent by Dayforce. When a user
replies to an email alert, this email is also used for their reply.

-- 121 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 122 of 0
Important: Before configuring this client property, contact Dayforce Support and submit a ticket to
request a Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) setup. This setup authorizes Dayforce to send email
on behalf of your organization and helps to make sure that alert email messages are delivered
successfully. After DKIM setup is completed for your domain, Dayforce Support will give you the
public record. Your organization's IT team is then responsible for implementing this record in your
Domain Name System (DNS). If you don’t complete DKIM setup, email messages might not be
delivered successfully to recipients.
Full Balance Display
Controls the level of detail for balance information that Dayforce shows in the Balances tab of the
following features:
Employee Timesheet
Manager Timesheet
Timesheets
Work > Time Away List
Work > Timesheet
Time Review
Period Review
When this checkbox is cleared, Dayforce shows a simplified view of the balance information:
When this checkbox is selected, Dayforce shows the Approved and Pending columns. Also, if the
employee has balances with grant amounts, Dayforce shows the Grant and Remaining Grant
columns.
Display Time in HH:MM
Important: This functionality applies only to time data where the unit of time is “hours.”
When selected, Dayforce shows some time data using the HH:MM format. When cleared,
Dayforce shows most time data in the decimal format. For example, when this client property is
enabled, an employee’s average daily hours and normal weekly hours are shown in the
HH:MM format in their employee profile:

-- 122 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 123 of 0
This client property doesn't apply to time data in Schedules and Timesheets. To show time data
using the HH:MM format in these features, use the View totals in hours:minutes setting in the
Options panel. See Schedule Your Staff and Take Attendance and Correct Pay.
Display Time Decimal Precision
Controls how many decimal places Dayforce shows in times. For example, to show time to three
decimal places, select 3 (##.###).
Note: To support this functionality, when converting from hours to minutes, Dayforce rounds up or
down to the nearest minute.
This client property also works with the Display rounding informational message client property,
which is located in System Admin > Client Properties, in the Properties tab, in the Timesheet
section. The Display rounding informational message client property controls whether Dayforce
shows an informational message about decimal precision in the Timesheets feature in the Pay
panel. Dayforce shows the informational message only when the following conditions are met:
The Display rounding informational message checkbox is selected.
The Display Time Decimal Precision client property is set to either 1 (##.#), 2 (##.##), or 3
(##.###).
See Timesheet.
Display Currency Precision
Controls how many decimal places Dayforce shows in dollar amounts. The drop-down list
contains options from zero to four. For example, to show amounts to two decimal places, click 2.
Note: This property doesn’t apply to the Base Rate field in the Employment > Employment
Settings screen in People.
Authorize mobile time entries with geolocation
Controls whether users can set the GPS coordinates of a location to validate employee clock
entries through the mobile app. When selected, employees can clock in through their mobile
device using the Clock feature of the employee mobile apps, after a manager, administrator, or

-- 123 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 124 of 0
other user with access configures the location coordinates through the Set Coordinates feature of
the manager mobile app.
Enable HR Event on HR Import
Select this checkbox for HR imports to be able to trigger the New Hire/Rehire and Assignment
Changed HR events. This checkbox is cleared by default.
See Events Triggered by HR Import.
HR Import Event Threshold in Days
Enter a value to place a boundary on how far back an update in the import can go to trigger the
above HR events. This is evaluated as follows:
For new hires and rehires, Dayforce looks at the Hire Date field in the import file.
For work assignment changes Dayforce looks at the date that the primary work assignment
record changed.
This client property is set to 0 by default so that updates only trigger an HR event if they are on
the date that the import is run or future dated.
For example, you leave this field set to zero and run an HR import on February 17, 2020. The
import includes employees with the following hire dates:
Steve, hired on February 16, 2020
Erin, hired on February 17, 2020
Kyle, hired on February 18, 2020
As a result, the HR event is only triggered for Erin and Kyle, and not for Steve, whose hire date
falls outside of the threshold.
Continuing this example, if you enter 7 in this field, all three employees are included. In this case,
hires, rehires, and assignment changes in the file that occurred on February 10, 2020 and onward
can have an event triggered for them.
Note: The HR Import Event Threshold in Days field accepts negative values, but entering a
negative value sets the system to only generate events for items with an effective date in the
future.
See Events Triggered by HR Import.
Company Code
Specifies the code used to identify the company in some exports. The Company Code client
property is only used for integrating with specific products and can be left blank.

-- 124 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 125 of 0
End Dates Required on Secondary HR Records
Controls whether users need to provide an effective end date when adding secondary records in
the Work > Work Assignments screen in People. When selected, users can’t save secondary
records in People without specifying a date in the Effective To field. When cleared, Dayforce
doesn’t enforce this requirement.
HR Import Auto Generates Config Data
Note: If your organization uses Position Management this client property isn’t applicable to
position assignments, because position work assignments have preconfigured locations.
Controls whether the HR Import interface automatically generates missing configuration data if it’s
being assigned by the import. This data can be jobs, departments, job assignments, employment
statuses, employment status reasons, and pay classes. If an import file contains entries for any of
this data that are missing in Dayforce, the items are automatically created and then assigned to
the employee. For example, in the HR Import, several employees are being assigned the Head
Cashier job, but this job hasn’t yet been created in Dayforce. With the new configuration enabled,
Dayforce creates the Head Cashier job and then assigns it to the employees specified in the HR
Import.
When selected, Dayforce creates the configuration data listed above if it’s specified in the import
file but missing in Dayforce. When cleared, the import doesn't create new data. Instead, records
that attempt to assign items that don’t exist in Dayforce fail.
Client Operating Locations
Configures Dayforce to show labels based on where the organization is located. For example, if all
locations are in the United States, Dayforce can show State and SSN labels, while if all locations
are in Canada, Dayforce can show Province and SIN labels in the associated fields.
The selection controls address labels in People, the New Hire form, and in workflow forms with
address information. It also affects references to Social Security information in the Personal
> Confidential Information screen in People, the New Hire form, and in corresponding workflow
forms.
The drop-down list contains the following options:
Canada: Locations operate only in Canada. Labels reference “Provinces” and “Postal
Codes” in address fields and “SIN” in personal details. When users specify addresses in
People or in workflow forms, Dayforce populates the Province drop-down list with only the
provinces of Canada.
United States: Locations operate only in the United States of America. Labels reference
“States” and “ZIP Codes” in address fields and “SSN” in personal details. When users

-- 125 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 126 of 0
specify addresses in People or on workflow forms, Dayforce populates the State drop-down
list only with the states of the US.
North America: Locations operate in both the United States and Canada. Labels reference
“State/Province” and “Zip / Postal Code” in address fields and “SSN / SIN” in personal
details. When users specify addresses in People or in workflow forms, Dayforce populates
the State/Province drop-down list with Canadian provinces and states of the US.
International: Locations operate worldwide. Dayforce labels reference “State/Province” and
“Zip / Postal Code” in address fields and “National ID Number” in personal details. When
users specify addresses in People or in workflow forms, Dayforce populates the
State/Province drop-down list with Canadian provinces, states of the US, the UK, Germany,
Mexico, Netherlands, Italy, Czech Republic, Japan, China, India, Poland, and Korea.
Respect Client Operating Locations for Non-Primary Contact Information
Controls whether Dayforce allows international address and contact information for employees'
non-primary records. By default, the checkbox is selected and Dayforce restricts address and
contact information to the locations selected in the Client Operating Locations drop-down list.
Clear the checkbox and Dayforce shows additional options in the State/Province and Country
drop-down lists in address and contact records.
Hide displayed zero values
Controls whether Dayforce suppresses the display of zero dollar figures. If a field, report, row, or
column would show $0, Dayforce can be configured to substitute the value with a special
character or simply a blank. When selected, Dayforce shows the characters specified in the Text
to replace hidden zero values with field. If you leave the field blank, the $0 is replaced with a
blank.
Text to replace hidden zero values with
Controls what characters are shown instead of zero dollar figures; only used if the Hide displayed
zero values property is selected. If left blank and the Hide displayed zero values property is
selected, $0 is replaced with a blank.
Default Job Assignment Display
Controls the default setting of the Display Job Assignment As drop-down list in the view options of
Timesheets and the Grid View of Schedules. Select Job Name to hide the department names on
shift labels by default; select Department Name Job Name to show the full department and job
name by default.
Pay and Time Entry Aggregation for Plan
Enables the schedule and actual cost functionality in Dayforce. See Schedule Costs and Actual
Costs. When cleared, Dayforce calculates the scheduled cost and actual cost of labor for any

-- 126 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 127 of 0
given week based on a predefined formula that examines the hours scheduled and worked and
the pay rates of the employees who were both scheduled and recorded worked hours to
determine the costs shown in the Schedule and Actual columns.
Planning Calendar Display
Defines what week is loaded by default in Plan. The options are:
Current Week
Next Week
Two Weeks Ahead
Background Job queueing delay (in seconds)
Set the time frame to cancel a background job before it’s in the queue to run in System Admin
> Background Jobs. You can select 10 seconds, 5 seconds, or 0 seconds (which queues the job
immediately).
Restrict access to secondary locations in Plan
Determines which users can load plans for secondary locations in Plan. Select this checkbox and
users can only access secondary locations in Plan when:
They’re assigned access to the location in the Location Access tab in System Admin > User.
They manage employees (either directly or by organization), and the employee has a
primary work assignment for that location.
Employee Search Result Limit
Note: This setting is no longer applicable.
Pay Grade - Annualized Hours
Determines the annualized hours value Dayforce uses when it calculates the conversion between
the hourly rate and salary rate values for pay grades, when Dayforce isn’t configured to use the
Job Factor Point System. See Pay Grade - Use Job Factor Point System.
Specify the number of hours that Dayforce uses to represent a work year. Leave the field blank
and Dayforce uses the standard 2080 hours.
Pay Grade - Use Job Factor Point System
Dayforce can be configured to use two different pay grade systems. Select the checkbox and
Dayforce uses the job factor point system, showing the Job Grade, Pay Grade Group, Pay Grade,
Job Factor, Job Factor Score, Jobs & Job Grades and Bonus Grade tabs in the Pay Grades tab in
Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments. See Job Factor Point Configuration.

-- 127 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 128 of 0
Clear the checkbox and users configure rates and org differentials for each pay grade in the Pay
Grades tab in Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments. See Pay Grade Configuration.
Suppress from HR Export changes made by HR Import
Controls whether Dayforce exports delta changes made to employee records through the
HR Export, if the changes were made by the HR Import. Select the checkbox and Dayforce
ignores changes made by the HR Import when delta changes are exported through the
HR Export, to prevent Dayforce from performing cyclical import-export cycles. Clear the checkbox
and Dayforce exports all delta change values when the HR Export is configured to export them.
Limit Work Assignments by Budget
Controls whether Dayforce limits work assignments based on the number entered in the Budget
field of a job assignment’s headcount allocations, which are located in the Assignments section of
the job assignment’s details in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job
Assignments.
When the limit is reached for a location, the job assignment isn’t available to assign to the
employee in the following areas:
Custom and system XML forms that have the Location and Job Assignment fields.
The Work > Work Assignments screen in the People feature.
For example, if a job assignment’s limit is reached for the location that you select in the Location
and Job Assignment section of the New Hire form, that job assignment isn’t available to select.
Restrict Job Assignment - Location Assignment To Physical Locations
Controls whether job assignments can be assigned to any organizational unit in the hierarchy, or if
job assignments are restricted to locations that are configured with the Physical Location
checkbox selected in the General subtab of the Organization tab in Org Setup > Organization.
Select the checkbox, and job assignments can only be assigned to physical locations. Clear the
checkbox, and job assignments can be assigned to any location in the organizational hierarchy.
Preferred Time Zone
Select the time zone that Dayforce uses for scheduling background jobs. With a time zone
selected, when system administrators schedule background jobs for specific times, Dayforce
schedules the job to run at the specified time in the time zone selected in this setting, regardless
of the time zone of the user’s computer or the server. For example, select Pacific Standard Time
and when a system administrator schedules a background job to run at 4:00 PM, Dayforce runs
the job at 4:00 PM Pacific Standard Time, even if the system administrator schedules the job from
a computer in a different time zone.

-- 128 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 129 of 0
Disable Client Side Calculation for Plan
When selected and you load Plan, Dayforce loads data based on server-side calculations rather
than client-side calculations.
Use TAFW workflow
Enables time away from work (TAFW) workflows. See Workflow Configuration for Time Away from
Work.
TAFW auto select shifts
Controls whether Dayforce automatically unfills or deletes shifts in Approvals that overlap with an
employee’s approved time away from work request. When selected, Dayforce automatically
removes the shift from the employee’s schedule (either by deleting or unfilling it, depending on
how Dayforce is configured) when managers approve a request. If the TAFW auto select shifts
checkbox isn’t selected, managers need to manually select the shifts they want to delete or unfill
in the Edit Schedule dialog box.
TAFW Search Result Limit
The number of time away from work requests that Dayforce loads in Approvals.
Note: When you search using the Employee Name field in the Filter & Sort panel, Dayforce
respects the Employee Search Result Limit field (also configured in the General section of the
Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties) instead of the TAFW Search Result Limit field.
For example, with the Employee Search Result Limit field set to 15, and the TAFW Search Result
Limit field to set 100, Dayforce only returns results if you select 15 or fewer employees.
TAFW Alert/Reports Show By
Controls how Dayforce shows time in the Pending Time Off Request Alert and the Employee TAFW
Report. The following options are available:
Elapsed: Dayforce shows elapsed time in the alert and report. For example, an employee
has a shift rotation of Monday to Friday, with Saturday and Sunday off. The employee
schedules time off starting on a Friday, and ending on a Monday. With this option selected,
the alert and report show a duration of four days
Scheduled: Dayforce shows scheduled time in the alert and report. Continuing the example
above, the alert and report show a duration of two days.
Approvals Max Employees Search Limit
Specifies the limit for employee search results in Approvals. For example, if you enter 100 in this
field and then perform a search that yields more than 100 employees, a message is shown to

-- 129 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 130 of 0
indicate that the search can't be completed because it exceeds the search limit. To complete the
search, you must refine it so that it yields a result of fewer than 100 employees.
Approvals Show Seniority Date
When selected, shows the Seniority Date sorting option in the Sorting Options dialog box in
Approvals.
Run Pay Engine on Punch Import
Selected by default. Dayforce runs the pay rule engine on every out clock entry and injected meal
during the import. To reduce the import time for files that contain a large number of clock entries,
administrators can clear this checkbox to prevent the engine from running.
Run Pay Engine on Pay Adjustment Import
By default, this checkbox is selected and Dayforce runs the pay rule engine after the Employee
Pay Adjustment Import runs. Dayforce also runs the Pay Summary Recalc background job for all
of the records in the import file.
By default, the Pay Summary Recalc background job processes the records one at a time. If the
File size (no. of records) threshold client property is configured with a value and the import file has
more records than this value, then its records are processed all at once. Otherwise, the records
are processed one at a time.
Clear this checkbox and the pay rule engine doesn’t run after the Employee Pay Adjustment
Import runs. The Pay Summary Recalc background job also doesn’t run. This reduces the import
time for files with a large number of pay adjustments.
If your organization has a large number of employees, it’s recommended that you clear this client
property to reduce the import time. For example, if your import file contains more than 500 pay
adjustments, this client property—if enabled—can impact Dayforce performance when running
the import. You could also ask Dayforce Support to set an appropriate value in the File size (no. of
records) threshold client property to improve the processing time for large import files.
File size (no. of records) threshold
Before You Begin: You need to contact Dayforce Support to ask for this field to be updated.
Specify the number of records there should be in an import file for Dayforce to run the Pay
Summary Recalc background job for all of the records in an import file instead of one record at a
time. By default, this field is set to 0.
When the Run Pay Engine on Pay Adjustment Import client property is selected and a value is
configured in this field, the Pay Summary Recalc background job processes all the records in an
import file at once when there are more records in the file than the value configured in this field. If

-- 130 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 131 of 0
the number of records in an import file are less than the value configured in this field, the
Pay Summary Recalc background job processes each record one at a time.
Change Reason is Mandatory
Controls whether the Reason field for primary work assignments is a required field in the following
areas of Dayforce:
The Employment Status tab of the Employment > Employment Settings screen in People.
The Assignments section of the Work > Work Assignments screen in People.
The Job Assignment and Compensation Change form.
The Internal Candidate Hire form in the Candidates tab of Recruiting > Recruiting > Job
Requisitions.
Any custom forms that include the status change reason field.
When the checkbox is selected, the Reason drop-down list is indicated as required with a red
asterisk (*). Dayforce shows an informational message when a value isn’t provided.
Denormalized Last Full Update
Shows the date of the latest full update for the denormalized tables in Reporting and Analytics
> Reporting.
Dashboards Data Preparation Last Run Date
Shows the date of the latest ETL run date for Dashboards.
Dashboards Data Preparation Maximum Views to Cache
Specifies the number of views to cache in Dashboards.
Dashboards Data Preparation Maximum Minutes For View Caching
Specifies the maximum minutes for view caching in Dashboards.
Filter out Render on Demand and Workflow Jobs
When selected, Dayforce excludes all “Render on demand report” and “Workflow Processor” jobs
from the background job log. Excluding these jobs from the list dedicates space to more relevant
jobs. When this checkbox is selected, users can view these jobs by selecting them in the Job
Name setting.
Purge Employee Time Entry Pictures threshold (in days)
By default, this field is set to 180, and Dayforce automatically deletes any employee clock
pictures (that is, the pictures that are captured when employees perform clock entries on a

-- 131 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 132 of 0
Dayforce Touch Clock that has picture capture enabled) that are older than 180 days. To delete
clock pictures after a different number of days, enter that number in this field.
For more information about picture capture and clock pictures, see the Clocks Guide.
Offline Threshold
The number of minutes that a clock must be offline for before Dayforce sends the Offline Clock
Alert. For example, enter 25 and Dayforce sends the alert when a clock has been offline for at
least 25 minutes. This setting is set to 30 minutes by default.
Hide $ symbol
When selected, hides the dollar symbol ($) for monetary values in several areas of Dayforce,
including:
Planning features, such as Plan.
Scheduling features, such as Centralized Schedules and Schedules.
Grid and duration timesheet features, such as Timesheets, Employee Timesheet, Manager
Timesheet, Work > Timesheet, Period Review, and Time Review.
Some fixed format reports, such as the Employee Pay Summary, Pay Delta, and Pay Detail
reports.
This functionality is useful for European users who don’t use the dollar symbol for monetary
values.
Retain employee TAFW records on inactivating
When selected, retains employees’ time away from work requests when their status is changed to
inactive. By default, this checkbox is cleared and Dayforce automatically cancels employees’
pending and future approved time away from work requests when their status changes to inactive.
Show Affiliate Promotions
When selected, Dayforce shows an Intuit TurboTax promotional offer when US employees view
their W-2 forms in Earnings > Year End Forms. This feature is designed as an opportunity for
customers to offer their employees a way to potentially save money on their taxes. By default, this
checkbox is selected, and Dayforce shows the Intuit TurboTax offer above the user’s W-2. To
disable this, clear the Show Affiliate Promotions checkbox, click Save, and then click Refresh.
Basic Business Day Calculation
This checkbox is selected by default, and Dayforce uses the basic calculation method to
determine business day alignment time (BDA). The basic method applies the BDA settings
configured at the pay group level first, and if the employee’s pay group doesn't have a BDA

-- 132 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 133 of 0
configured, then it applies the organization-level BDA settings. If there is no BDA specified at the
organization level, Dayforce uses the default BDA of midnight.
If you clear this checkbox, Dayforce uses BDA settings from the following sources in order of
priority:
1. Shift rotation
2. Pay group
3. Organization
4. Default (midnight)
Set holiday start and duration
When selected, enables the holiday start time and start and end offset settings in Pay Setup >
Holiday Group. Using this setting, you can specify a start time that’s different from the business
day alignment, and create pay holidays that are shorter or longer than 24 hours.
Analytics/Period Planner - Use Annual Salary
Select this checkbox to have the Period Planner pull employees’ annual salary amounts from the
Annual Salary field in the Employment > Employment Settings screen of People. When this
checkbox isn’t selected, Dayforce continues to pull annual salary amounts from the Rate field in
the Work > Work Assignments screen of People. By default, this checkbox isn’t selected.
Show site purpose banner (non-production only)
By default, this checkbox is selected and Dayforce shows an indicator to the left of the feature
name at the top of the screen when you’re using a non-production site:
This is useful for quick identification when you’re switching between production and testing sites.
To turn off this functionality, clear the checkbox.
Save daily net hours for each TAFW request
Select this checkbox when you configure any rules in Time Away From Work > Time Off Rules
Policy that depend on daily net hour calculations such as the TAFW Attachment Required Rule.
Use TAFW Change Pay Summary Recalculation Queue
Select this checkbox to enable Dayforce to track and save time away from work (TAFW) changes
for recalculation later. When this functionality is enabled, Dayforce doesn’t recalculate these
changes automatically. To recalculate TAFW changes, you must run the TAFW Change Pay
Summary Recalculation background job. See TAFW Change Pay Summary Recalculation.

-- 133 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 134 of 0
Allow Erase/Purge for persons with critical warnings
Controls whether a person’s data can be deleted in System Admin > Data Management Center
when there are critical warnings for the person's data. By default, if a person has critical warning
type messages, their records won’t be deleted even though they’re in the erase queue. Selecting
this client property overrides this default setting.
See Personal Data Management Administration.
Default Value for User Property “Display24HourTime” via HR Import
Controls which time display format employees receive when they are created using the HR Import:
24-hour time or 12-hour time. The options are as follows:
True: Applies the 24-hour time format to new employees imported by the HR Import.
False: Applies the 12-hour time format to new employees imported by the HR Import.
By default, this property has no option selected and new imported employees receive the 24-hour
time format. However, if you select False for this property, the HR Import applies the 12-hour time
format to the new employees it imports. If you later want to go back to the 24-hour time format,
you can select True.
Automatically trigger 'Pay Zone Differential Recalc' Job after a 'Pay Grade' or 'Pay Grade Rates
Import'
Select this checkbox to enable Dayforce to automatically run the Pay Zone Differential Recalc
background job when pay grades or pay grade rates are imported. This checkbox is cleared by
default and the Pay Zone Differential Recalc background job doesn’t run automatically when pay
grades or pay grade rates are imported.
Automatically trigger “Employee Pay Zone Recalc” and “Pay Zone Differential Recalc” Jobs
Select this checkbox to enable Dayforce to automatically do the following:
Run the Employee Pay Zone Recalc background job after pay zone imports.
Run the Pay Zone Differential Recalc background job after new pay zones are created.
For more information about these jobs, see the following topics:
Employee Pay Zone Recalc
Pay Zone Differential Recalc
Enable Leave Projection
Enables leave projection functionality in Dayforce. Through leave projection, Dayforce forecasts
employees’ projected balance totals based on their estimated worked time.

-- 134 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 135 of 0
Important: Projected balance totals are estimates and aren’t guaranteed.
For more information about how to configure and use leave projection, see Leave Projection.
Remove future Employee Employment Status and Employee Work Assignments that exist after
termination
Select this checkbox, and when the Terminate an Employee form or HR Import is processed,
employee future status and work assignment records are removed when they’re no longer relevant
to the terminated employee record.
When this client property is enabled and you submit the Terminate an Employee form for an
employee, their secondary job work assignments and primary or secondary position assignments
that are active as of the termination date are end-dated. Primary and secondary job work
assignments and position assignments that become active after the termination date are deleted.
When the client property isn’t enabled and you submit the Terminate an Employee form for an
employee, any association between their position and their primary and secondary work
assignments is ended. Primary and secondary job work assignments, position assignments, and
future status records aren’t deleted.
Toast Notification Duration (seconds)
The number of seconds Dayforce shows toast notifications, such as the ones shown when reports
are ready:
For example, to show notifications for five seconds, enter 5 in the Toast Notification Duration
(seconds) field. Notifications will show for five seconds, or until the user dismisses them,
whichever comes first.
Note: This setting doesn't apply to the notifications Dayforce shows when errors occur. Error
notifications continue to be shown until users dismiss them.
Allow Erase of Persons with Error type messages
Select this checkbox and employees and candidates can be deleted in the Erase tab in System
Admin > Data Management Center, even if they have error type validation messages. By default,
this checkbox is cleared and personal data isn’t deleted by the background job for people who
have error type warnings. See Erase Personal Data Records by Request.

-- 135 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 136 of 0
Disable Employee Manager Recalc During HR Import
Select this checkbox to disable the Employee Manager Recalc job during HR imports to improve
performance and prevent the job from running twice (in cases where it's configured to run directly
after the import). By default, this checkbox is cleared and the job runs during imports.
Enable Balance Period Validation
Select the checkbox and Dayforce validates balance transactions to ensure that they fall within
the effective date range of the associated balance. If there is no configured balance period,
Dayforce shows an error message and you can't save the transaction. When the checkbox is
cleared, Dayforce validates the transaction without looking at the balance period.
Account Code For Sterling Screening
Integrates the features of Recruiting with the Sterling third-party candidate screening service.
When your organization creates an account with the screening service, Sterling Screening
provides an integration code, which you add here to complete the integration.
Account Code For HireRight Screening
Integrates the features of Recruiting and Onboarding with the HireRight third-party candidate
screening service and I-9 service. When your organization creates an account with the screening
service, HireRight provides an integration code, which you add here to complete the integration.
Days to load SL without prompt
Silverlight loads in Dayforce for the following three reasons:
When a role uses Silverlight features.
When a role is associated with workflows or forms that use Silverlight.
When Dayforce detects in the back end that a user’s activity requires Silverlight.
This property addresses the last point above. When Dayforce detects that a user’s activity
requires Silverlight, an entry is made in the database in the backend and Silverlight loads in
Dayforce. By default, the expiration for a user session is 30 days and administrators can reduce or
increase the value based on the user’s needs. If the value is reduced, and there are days
remaining for the user’s session, the expiration for the user’s session is updated the next time the
user logs in. If the value is reduced, and there are no days remaining for the user’s session,
Silverlight won't load.
End date non-primary work assignments upon termination on HR Import
Select this checkbox to end-date existing active non-primary work assignments as of employee
termination dates when terminating employees via the HR Import. Non-primary work assignments
that start after the termination date are deleted.

-- 136 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 137 of 0
Automatically reassign employee to next-level manager on direct manager termination
When the Automatically reassign employee to next-level manager on direct manager termination
client property is enabled and an employee’s direct manager is terminated in Dayforce, the
employee is automatically assigned to the terminated manager’s direct manager, preventing
employees from not having a manager in Dayforce.
See Management Model in the HR Administration Guide.
Disable Employee Manager Hierarchy recalc on transactional changes
Clear the checkbox, and Dayforce recalculates the employee manager hierarchy when you save
a change to an employee work assignment or management authority record. When the checkbox
is selected, Dayforce doesn't recalculate the employee manager hierarchy, and existing employee
manager hierarchy data isn’t updated.
Note: By default, the checkbox is selected and Dayforce doesn't recalculate the existing
employee manager hierarchy when you save a change to an employee work assignment or
management authority record.
Include Pre-Start status records in HR Export
Select this checkbox to include onboarding records when you export HR data. To exclude this
data, clear the checkbox.
Delegation Duration Maximum (in Days)
Enter a number in this field to limit the number of days for which a delegation can be configured.
Enter a value between 1 and 999999999 to restrict the delegation access duration. Dayforce
treats the value 0 in the same way as there being no value entered, and delegations will have no
duration restriction. The default value in the field is 0.
Important: You can enter and save values between -999999999 and 999999999. It’s important that
you only enter values between 0 and 999999999 in this field because Dayforce only validates that
a value within this range has been entered when you’re configuring delegation access elsewhere
in Dayforce.
Disable Onboarding Date creation when processing hiring forms
Select this checkbox to disable Onboarding functionality in forms. When this checkbox is
selected, Dayforce doesn't show the Onboarding Date or Onboarding Role settings in hiring
forms.
Use Onboarding Date instead of Hire Date for Employee Properties on forms

-- 137 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 138 of 0
Select this checkbox to use employee onboarding dates instead of hire dates as the effective start
date of the employee properties included in hiring forms.
Note: This checkbox isn’t enabled if the Disable Onboarding Date creation when processing hiring
forms client property is selected.
Assign employee to all matching departments on HR Import when org assignment is above site
level
When you select this checkbox, and the OrgUnitXrefCode in the HR import file is above store
level, then the import looks at the child org units under the OrgUnitXrefCode to find a
department that matches the DepartmentXrefCode provided in the file. The employee is then
assigned to the org unit that matches the department.
When you select this checkbox, and the OrgUnitXrefCode in the HR Import is at or below store
level, then the import finds the matching department at the onsite department level and assigns
the employee to that department.
Show Week Number On Calendar Selection Controls
Select this checkbox to show calendar week numbers in the drop-down calendar throughout
Dayforce. The drop-down calendar is found in a number of screens across Dayforce, including
Timesheets, Schedules, Work > Calendar, and Time Review.
In the preceding screenshot, the 43rd week is selected in the drop-down calendar and the Wk
column shows the week numbers for the selected month.

-- 138 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 139 of 0
Also, if this checkbox is selected, Dayforce includes the week number in the Printed Schedule
Report and Schedule Report with Contract.
Note: The week number calculation is based on the ISO week date system and isn’t configurable.
Disable Population of End Date from Close Date in Org Import
Controls whether the closing date overrides the effective end date when you import an org and
the effective end date isn’t provided in the XML file.
Dayforce links in messages use SSO (if enabled)
Select this checkbox and users who have a single sign-on (SSO) account are directed to use the
SSO login process when they click a link in a Dayforce message. Users who don’t have an SSO
account are directed to sign in using the company name and their Dayforce login information.
When this checkbox is cleared, all users are directed to the login screen when they click links in
Dayforce messages.
Note: If most of your users have SSO accounts, it’s recommended that you select this checkbox.
Customers who don’t use SSO should clear this checkbox to help ensure optimal response times
during the login process.
Countries to create and update Leave Management records with form submissions
Select the countries that you want to generate leave management records for in the Leave
Management screen of People. Only certain countries are eligible.
Disable Pay Grade Validation on HR Import
Controls whether pay grade validation of the HR Import is enabled. By default, the checkbox isn’t
selected and pay grade validation is applied to the import.
Disable Pay Grade Validation on HR Recruiting Import
Controls whether pay grade validation of the HR Recruiting Import is enabled. By default, the
checkbox isn’t selected and pay grade validation is applied to the import.
Enable Military Address
Controls whether you can add military addresses to employee records in Dayforce by adding the
Include Military States checkbox to HR Admin > Contact Information Types. Selecting the Include
Military States checkbox for a contact information type allows you to then add a military address
for an employee, their dependents and beneficiaries, and their emergency contacts in People.
See Contact Information Type Setup in the HR Administration Guide.
Enable Pay Zones in place of Org. Differentials

-- 139 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 140 of 0
Select this checkbox to enable pay zone functionality, including the Employee Pay Zone Recalc
background job and the Pay Zone Differential Recalc background job. Dayforce replaces the Org
Differentials subtab in the Pay Grades tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments with the Pay
Zone Differentials subtab. The Pay Zone Differentials subtab is where you associate pay zones
with pay grades.
Compensation change limit in job assignment and compensation change form
Enter the amount that compensation can be increased in the Job Assignment and Compensation
form before a validation is triggered. By default, this value is 10,000,000.
Generate Base Rate Transactions
This setting controls whether Dayforce can detect and commit base rate transactions after you run
the Base Rate Recalc background job.
Select this checkbox to include base rate transactions in base rate recalculations. This includes
both system-generated base rate updates and manual base rate updates made in the Work
> Base Rate Progression screen of People.
Clear this checkbox and Dayforce ignores both system-generated and manual transactions
during base rate recalculation. This checkbox is cleared by default. It’s recommended that you
don’t enable this client property if your organization doesn't use the Dayforce base rate
progression features, because it might affect the performance of the background job engine.
Indicate Shared Employees
Select this checkbox to show the Indicate Shared Employees checkbox in the Options panel in
Schedules and Timesheets. When the Indicate Shared Employees checkbox is selected, Dayforce
shows the shared employee icon ( ) next to employees who work at the selected location on a
secondary work assignment.
Enable activity based costing
When you select this checkbox, you can assign the system-generated Activity labor metric to time
entry policies and default labor records in the Labor Metrics tab of Pay Setup > Time Entry Policy
and in the Work > Default Labor screen of People. When this checkbox is cleared, Dayforce hides
the Activity labor metric in these locations and makes it unavailable for time entry policy and
default labor configuration.
Disable auto update of Most Recent Hire date
When an employee’s employment status transitions from Terminated to Active, Dayforce
automatically updates the Most Recent Hire Date field to match the start date of the new Active
status. Employment status transitions can be triggered by HR Import, forms, or when you make

-- 140 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 141 of 0
changes in the Employment > Employment Settings screen in People. You can disable this
behavior by enabling the Disable auto update of Most Recent Hire date client property.
Hide comments from Complex (Non-XML based) forms
Select this checkbox to hide the Comment field from complex (non-XML based) forms anywhere
that a form is shown. For example, users won't see it when they fill out the Direct Deposit form,
during any approval stage, or in the form submission history. This functionality can be used to limit
free-text communication between employees in Dayforce to prevent the sharing of sensitive data.
Comments that are in submitted forms before this checkbox is selected are retained in the
database but hidden from all areas in Dayforce.
Notes:
A complex form is a Dayforce form that has predefined content and no XML code to review
or edit. Examples include the Direct Deposit form and tax forms. In the Form Builder screen
of Workflow Administration, these forms have the IsComplexForm checkbox of the
Properties tab selected, and the XML and Preview tabs grayed-out.
In non-complex forms (forms where the XML code is editable), you can manually remove
the Comment field from the form code so that it's not available to users.
Show 'Recommended browsers' banner on HTML page when using IE or Firefox (ESR52)
browsers
This setting allows you to show or hide the banner that reminds you to use Chrome, Safari, Firefox,
or Edge browsers whenever you’re logged in using Internet Explorer or Firefox Extended Support
Release (ESR) version 52 browsers. Because Dayforce shows the banner by default, if you want
to hide the banner, click No. Changes take effect after the next login.
Exclude One Time Payment Bonus Form
Select this checkbox to ensure that approval requests for a custom version of the Bonus Payment
Form are only shown in Message Center.
When users submit the system version of the Bonus Payment Form that comes with Dayforce,
approvals are only shown in Message Center and not in other areas such as the Actions tab of
Home. This is because of a processing requirement for this form. However, when users submit a
custom version of this form, approvals aren't just restricted to Message Center by default, and
processing issues can occur if users approve it in other areas.
To ensure that approval requests for a custom version of a Bonus Payment Form only appear in
Message Center:
Select the Exclude One Time Payment Bonus Form checkbox.

-- 141 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 142 of 0
In the Properties tab of Workflow Administration > Form Builder for the custom form, enter
OneTimePaymentBonus in the Reference Code field.
This functionality is only supported for one custom Bonus Payment Form per instance of Dayforce,
because only one custom form can have this reference code.
Allow attachments section to be updated when HR Policies are in use
Select this checkbox to enable the Attachments section in HR Admin > HR Policies for active
policies, allowing users to add or delete attachments while an HR policy is in use. Clearing this
checkbox disables the Attachments section for active policies. This checkbox is cleared by
default.
Delay the Employee Manager and Manager Hierarchy Recalc Jobs until after the HR Import 2.0
file is processed
Select this checkbox to delay the Employee Manager Recalc job and the Manager Hierarchy
Recalc job until after the HR Import 2.0 file is processed to improve performance. By default, this
checkbox is selected and the jobs don’t run until after HR Import 2.0 processing has finished.
Note: If the Disable Employee Manager Recalc During HR Import property is selected, the Delay
the Employee Manager and Manager Hierarchy Recalc Jobs until after the HR Import 2.0 file is
processed checkbox is unavailable.
Delay the Employee Manager and Manager Hierarchy Recalc Jobs until after the mass employee
edits in People is processed
Select this checkbox to delay the Employee Manager Recalc job and the Manager Hierarchy
Recalc job until after mass employee edits in People are processed to improve performance. By
default, this checkbox is selected and the jobs don’t run until mass employee edits are finished.
Allow a client to transition a Secondary WorkAssignment to a Primary WorkAssignment
Controls you can import a primary work assignment that has the same job, location, and
overlapping dates as an existing secondary work assignment using HR Import. When this
property is cleared, Dayforce returns an error message indicating that the primary work
assignment overlaps with an existing work assignment and the import fails. When this property is
selected, Dayforce end-dates the existing secondary work assignment and imports the primary
work assignment successfully.
Display Enhanced Gender Last Modification Information and Effective Dating
Controls whether effective dating and last modified record data is collected for employee gender
updates and shown in the Personal > Confidential Information screen of People. By default, this
checkbox is cleared.

-- 142 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 143 of 0
Minimum worksheets to set budget by guidelines using a background job
Enter the minimum number of compensation worksheets required to trigger a background job for
setting budgets.
If the number of worksheets exceeds this value and one or more guidelines are set based on
budgets, the Compensation Set Budget From Guidelines Job runs to set the budgets. Otherwise,
budgets are set without using the background job.
The background job also supports setting budgets by percentage or fixed amount when these
options are used together with guidelines.
By default, this field is set to a high integer.
Minimum employees to auto-allocate rewards using a background job
Enter the minimum number of employees required in compensation worksheets to enable auto-
allocation of the budget using a background job. If the number of employees exceeds this limit,
the Compensation Auto Allocation Job allocates the budget and automatically saves the
worksheet. Otherwise, when you click Auto-Allocate in compensation worksheets, Dayforce
allocates the budget without using a background job.
By default, this field is set to a high integer to allow automatic budget allocation. If you experience
issues with auto-allocation, reduce the value (the recommended setting is 500).
Maximum reward letters per ZIP file for mass download
Enter the number of reward letters that should be included in each ZIP file when users download
reward letters for multiple employees. The default value is 50. This value indicates that each ZIP
file contains 50 reward letters for a mass download. If you encounter performance issues when
downloading reward letters in bulk, enter a lower value for this client property.
Sync Compensation Employee Data
Select this checkbox to capture HR events and process them through a background job, allowing
administrators to synchronize employee data changes using the Sync Employee Data button in
compensation worksheets.
This client property works with the Sync Employee Data role feature. To make the Sync Employee
Data button available in compensation worksheets, select this role feature in System Admin >
Roles, in the Features tab, under Compensation Administration > Compensation Cycle
Administration.
Enable Document Preview

-- 143 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 144 of 0
Select this checkbox to show a preview of images and documents without needing to download a
copy of an attached file.
Messages
The client properties in the Messages section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client
Properties control how and when certain messages are shown in Dayforce, and properties for
email verification.
Report Client Message
Enter the message that Dayforce displays on the Printed Schedule Report. This output is a fixed-
format report, which you can run in the Reports dialog box in Schedules.
In the example above, Dayforce is configured to show the message, "The use of this report by
unauthorized third parties shall be at their own risk."
Letter Management Sender Address
Enter the default email address that employee letters and candidate offers are sent from when the
user sending the letter doesn't have an active business email address. This property allows
Dayforce users who don’t have an employee record, like system admins, to send letters. See
Letter Management Configuration.
Confirm DKIM setup and use Letter Management Sender Address
Select this checkbox after the Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) setup is complete for your
organization. When you select this checkbox, any letter sent from a user who doesn't have an
active business email shows the sender address you saved in the Letter Management Sender
Address client property, instead of the default Dayforce address.
To configure DKIM, contact your Dayforce support representative and submit a ticket to request a
DKIM setup. This setup authorizes Dayforce to send email on behalf of your organization and
makes sure that alert email messages are delivered successfully. Your organization’s IT team is

-- 144 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 145 of 0
responsible for implementing this record in your Domain Name System (DNS). If you don’t
complete the DKIM setup, email messages might not be delivered to recipients.
Employee
The settings in the Employee section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties
deal with employee information in Dayforce.
Enable SSN Validation
Controls whether Dayforce validates the Social Security numbers (SSN) or Social Insurance
numbers (SIN) supplied for each employee in People and any new hires onboarded using the
onboarding wizard in People, or the workflow New Hire form.
The SSN validation checks whether the number is in a valid format and isn’t a duplicate of a
number already entered for an employee in Dayforce.
When the Enable SSN Validation checkbox is cleared, Dayforce doesn't validate SSNs and the
field doesn't need a valid number when onboarding employees with the onboarding wizard.
Note: The Enable SSN Validation client property must be enabled if you’re using payroll because
the Payroll functionality requires that all employees have valid SSNs.
Allow Applied for SSN
Controls whether Dayforce allows duplicate SSN values of 000-00-0000 to be entered for
employees in People, imported through the HR Imports, or saved on workflow forms, for
employees that have applied for a Social Security number but haven’t received one yet.
Note: This functionality only affects employees with a primary residence in the United States.
Allow Hiring With No SSN/SIN
When this checkbox is selected, the SSN/SIN field (or the National ID Number field in some
locations) in the Personal Details section of the Candidate Hire form isn’t required. Select this
checkbox if you’ll onboard employees before entering their SSN/SIN.
Blank SSN for Contractors
Controls whether you can onboard contractors without entering their SSN or SIN.
Enable SSN Warning Or Error Messages
Controls whether Dayforce shows an error or warning message when employees are onboarded
without a valid Social Security number (SSN) and Dayforce is configured with the Enable
SSN Validation client property selected or when employees enter dependent information without a

-- 145 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 146 of 0
valid Social Security number (SSN) and Dayforce is configured with the Enable Dependent SSN
Required at age (In Months) client property selected.
When Dayforce is configured to show error messages, the form can't be submitted with an invalid
SSN or SIN. When Dayforce is configured to show warning messages, the form can be submitted
or approved, if the warning message is approved.
Note: The Enable SSN Warning or Error Messages client property is only active if the Enable
SSN Validation checkbox is also selected.
Enable Dependent SSN Required at age (In Months)
Controls whether Dayforce validates the SSN or SIN of employees' dependents saved in Dayforce
Benefits. Specify the age, in months, at which Dayforce begins validating the SSN or SIN for
dependents. For example, enter 6 and Dayforce validates the value for any dependents older
than six months, and doesn't validate SSNs or SINs for dependents younger than six months.
If left blank, Dayforce doesn't validate SSN or SIN values for employees' dependents regardless
of age.
When you select the Enable SSN Validation checkbox and leave the Enable Dependent SSN
Required at age (In Months) field blank, Dayforce doesn’t validate the SSN field for US
dependents, or the SIN and SIN Expiry Date fields for Canadian dependents during mobile and
web enrollments.
If you select the Enable SSN Validation checkbox and enter zero in the Enable Dependent SSN
Required at age (In Months) field, Dayforce doesn't validate the SIN or SIN Expiry Date fields for
Canadian dependents. However, Dayforce continues to validate the SSN field for US dependents
during mobile and web enrollments.
Generate granular Work Assignment records via Cover Your Tracks
Controls how Dayforce generates Cover Your Tracks (CYT) work assignments. Select the
checkbox and Dayforce generates multiple individual work assignments to cover the periods
taken into consideration by CYT. Clear the checkbox and Dayforce generates only one work
assignment record to cover the periods taken into consideration by CYT. For more information
about CYT, see Cover Your Tracks Work Assignments in the HR Administration Guide.
Allow Duplicate Australian Tax File Number (TFN)
Controls whether employee profiles can have duplicate tax file numbers (TFNs). This option
provides support for cases where employees work under more than one award classification with
different pay frequencies. An employee's pay frequency in Dayforce is based on the pay group
assigned to their employment status record, and an employee can have only one active status
record at a given time. To pay these types of employees correctly, they must have a separate
employee record configured for each pay frequency. Each employee record must have the same

-- 146 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 147 of 0
TFN record on file for payroll processing, and as such, you must configure Dayforce to allow
duplicate TFNs.
When you select this checkbox, and an identification record with the TFN type is added or
updated, Dayforce doesn't need the identification number to be unique compared to other
identification records with the TFN type already in Dayforce. This functionality is in place when you
add or update records through the Identification section of the Personal > Confidential Information
screen in People, and through HR forms or the HR Import.
If you leave the Allow Duplicate Australian Tax File Number (TFN) checkbox cleared, Dayforce
continues to validate that TFN records added to Dayforce are unique. Regardless of whether the
Allow Duplicate Australian Tax File Number (TFN) checkbox is selected, Dayforce always
performs the standard TFN validation for format and length as set out by the Australian Taxation
Office.
Allow Duplicate New Zealand IRD Number
Controls whether employee profiles can have duplicate IRD numbers. This option adds support
for cases where employees work under more than one award classification with different pay
frequencies. An employee's pay frequency in Dayforce is based on the pay group assigned to
their employment status record, and an employee can only have one active status record at a
given time. To pay these types of employees correctly, they must have a separate employee
record configured for each pay frequency. Each employee record must have the same
IRD number record on file for payroll processing, and as such, you must configure Dayforce to
allow duplicate IRD numbers.
When you select this checkbox, and an identification record with the IRD Number type is added or
updated, Dayforce doesn't need the number to be unique compared to other identification
records with the IRD Number type already in Dayforce. This functionality is in place when you add
or update records through the Identification section of the Personal > Confidential Information
screen of People, and through HR forms or the HR Import.
If you leave the Allow Duplicate New Zealand IRD Number checkbox cleared, Dayforce continues
to validate that IRD number records added to Dayforce are unique. Regardless of whether the
Allow Duplicate New Zealand IRD Number checkbox is selected, Dayforce always performs the
standard IRD number validation for format and length as set out by the Inland Revenue
Department.
Name Display Format
Defines how employee names are shown in Dayforce. There are several options, which you can
combine into your preferred format.
Name display format tokens
Token 	Description

-- 147 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 148 of 0
Last Name 	The employee's last name.
First Name 	The employee's first name.
Middle Name 	The employee's full middle name.
Title 	The employee’s formal honorific. For example, Mr. or Mrs.
Suffix 	The employee's full suffix. For example, Jr. or Sr.
Common Name The employee's full common name. For example, an employee with the
first name “William” may use “Bill” as his common name.
Preferred Last Name
The employee's preferred last name. For example, an employee with a
lengthy or complex last name may choose to shorten it for every day
use.
Initials A set of capitalized letters representing the initial letters of a person's
first, middle, and/or last names.
Second Last Name The employee's full second last name.
Last Name Prefix 	(Germany only) The prefix of the employee's last name.
Professional Title 	(Germany only) The employee's professional title.
Previous Last Name
The last name that the employee used before a name change. For
example, if the employee married and took their partner’s name, their
previous last name is what they used before they married.
FirstChar(Last
Name) The initial of the employee’s last name.
FirstChar(Middle
Name) The initial of the employee's middle name.
FirstChar(First
Name) The initial of the employee’s first name.
FirstChar(Common
Name) The initial of the employee's common name.
Space
5 spaces for use in the name combination you create. You can only
use each one once.
Space
Space
Space
Space
, (Comma)
Punctuation options.
. (Period)
( (Left Parenthesis)
) (Right Parenthesis)
- (Hyphen)
For example, selecting the following options, in the order shown, for employee Margaret Parr
shows her name as Margaret P:

-- 148 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 149 of 0
First Name
Space
FirstChar(Last Name)
However, selecting these options shows it as Parr, M:
Last Name
, (Comma)
Space
FirstChar(First Name)
To help ensure the proper display of employee names, Dayforce makes the following automatic
updates to all name display formats:
Multiple spaces are compressed to a single space.
Spaces immediately before a comma are removed.
If a comma is the first character, it’s removed.
Spaces at the beginning or the end of the name after all other changes have been made
are removed to ensure that there is no whitespace.
Posted Schedule Name Display Format
Defines how employee names are shown on printed schedules. There are several options, which
use combinations of the following tokens:
Schedule name display tokens
Token 	Description
FIRST 	The employee's full first name
COMMON 	The employee's full common name
LAST 	The employee's full last name
MIDDLE 	The employee's full middle name
SECONDLAST 	The employee's full second last name
SUFFIX 	The employee's full suffix
F 	The initial of the employee's first name
C 	The initial of the employee's common name
L 	The initial of the employee's last name
M 	The initial of the employee's middle name
For example, selecting the option FIRST L for employee Margaret Parr shows her name as
Margaret P. However, selecting the option LAST, F shows it as Parr, M.
Add Employee Number to Name Display

-- 149 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 150 of 0
Defines whether employee numbers are shown alongside employee names throughout Dayforce.
Select the checkbox and Dayforce appends the employee number to the end of the employee's
display name, wherever the name is shown in Dayforce.
Number Algorithm
The algorithm used for generating new employee numbers. Set it to AUTO_UNIQUE to generate
employee numbers for employees onboarded through the HR Import or People. Set it to
USER_UNIQUE to allow users to specify their own employee numbers for new hires.
Note: The Number Algorithm field must be set to 'AUTO_UNIQUE' to use the Generate New
Employee Number functionality in the Work > Work Assignments screen of People, or
'USER_UNIQUE' for users to edit and specify employee numbers. See Generate New Employee
Numbers in the HR Administration Guide.
Reuse Rehire Previous Employee Number
Determines whether terminated employees can be reassigned their most recently assigned
employee number when they’re rehired with the same SSN or SIN as was saved previously. Select
the checkbox, and when an employee is rehired, Dayforce reassigns the employee's existing
employee number. Clear the checkbox, and the employee is assigned a new employee number
on rehire.
Important: To use this functionality, Dayforce must be configured with the Enable SSN Validation
client property selected, and the Number Algorithm set to AUTO_UNIQUE.
Allow Multiple Employees To Share The Same Employee Number
Determines whether duplicate employee numbers are permitted in the RESTful API, HR Import,
Rehire form, and user interface.
Options are:
Legacy: Preserves the default functionality where you can create duplicate numbers
through the user interface but not through HR Import. In addition, patching employees
allows duplicate employee numbers but posting employees doesn’t. This is the default
option.
On: Duplicate employee numbers are allowed in PATCH, POST, HR Import, Rehire form, and
the user interface.
Off: Duplicate employee numbers aren’t allowed in PATCH, POST, HR Import, forms, or the
user interface, including inactive employee numbers.
Important: If you select the Allow Multiple Employees To Share The Same Employee Number client
property to allow duplicate employee numbers, don’t select the Set Employee Badge to Employee
Number for New Hire client property.

-- 150 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 151 of 0
Login Algorithm
The algorithm used for generating new employee user names.
Important: These options generate user names only for employees hired through a new hire
workflow, and not for employees added to Dayforce using the HR Import.
The login algorithm options are:
Custom Format: Dayforce generates a login based on the format defined in the Login
Algorithm Custom Format client property of System Admin > Client Properties.
Note: You must configure the Login Algorithm Custom Format client property to use this
option.
Employee number: Dayforce generates a login that is the employee number of the new hire.
F.LAST: Dayforce generates a login that is the first initial of the new hire's first name and
their full last name, separated by a period. For example, the login Dayforce generates for
Margaret Parr is M.Parr.
FIRST.LAST: Dayforce generates a login that is the new hire's first name and last name,
separated by a period. For example, the login Dayforce generates for Margaret Parr is
Margaret.Parr.
LAST.FIRST: Dayforce generates a login that is the new hire's last name and first name,
separated by a period. For example, the login Dayforce generates for Margaret Parr is
Parr.Margaret.
User defined: Users specify a login ID themselves when onboarding new employees and
Dayforce validates that the user name is unique. Users can only specify a login ID if their
user role is configured with at least one user role in the New Hire Role Assignments tab in
System Admin > Roles. See Define New Hire Role Assignment Access.
Employees reporting to multiple managers
Controls whether employees can report to multiple managers in Dayforce. When selected,
multiple assigned managers can schedule the employee, add or edit worked shifts or pay
adjustments on the timesheet, record or approve time away from work requests for the employee,
or receive notification of decisions from a workflow routing node.
Note: If your organization uses Position Management, this client property isn’t applicable because
employees can’t report to multiple managers.
Allow Payroll Card as Pay Method
Determines whether Dayforce can be configured to support Payroll cards. Select the checkbox,
and configure the organization's Comdata Payroll card accounts in Payroll Setup > Bank
Accounts > Payroll Card Accounts.
Allow payroll card selection before registration in self service

-- 151 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 152 of 0
Controls whether Payroll Card is always an option in the Account Type drop-down list in Direct
Deposit forms.
When the Allow payroll card selection before registration in self service checkbox isn’t selected,
and an employee’s pay card isn’t registered in Dayforce, the Payroll Card option isn’t shown in the
Account Type drop-down list of the Direct Deposit form. When this is the case, users can’t add a
direct deposit record for an instant issue pay card.
When the Allow payroll card selection before registration in self service checkbox is selected, the
Payroll Card option is always shown, even when the employee’s pay card isn’t registered. This
allows users to add instant issue pay cards in the form.
Payroll Card is shown as a pay method option only when the following is true:
The Allow Payroll Card as Pay Method client property, located in the same section, is
enabled.
The employee belongs to a US pay group.
Also, the Allow payroll card selection before registration in self service client property isn’t
applicable for direct deposit records added directly in the Payroll > Direct Deposit screen of
People.
Set Employee Badge to Employee Number for New Hire
Controls whether Dayforce automatically assigns the employee number generated for employees
as their clock badge number when the employee is onboarded.
If an employee is onboarded using HR Import, and the import file has a badge number specified
for the employee, this client property setting is ignored.
If the employment status of an employee with an active badge changes from Inactive to Active,
this client property is ignored.
To use this functionality, the Number Algorithm property must be set to 'AUTO_UNIQUE'. See
Number Algorithm.
Enable Business Title
Controls whether Dayforce shows the business title in place of the employee's Job Assignment
Title throughout Dayforce.
Select the Enable Business Title checkbox and Dayforce shows the custom business title
configured in the Work > Work Assignments screen of People or in the Job Assignment and
Compensation Change form in place of the Job Assignment name. The business title is shown in
various places throughout Dayforce, including in Performance, in Home > My Team, and on
employee cards.

-- 152 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 153 of 0
Note: Business titles aren’t used for employees who are assigned to positions using Position
Management. In most areas of Dayforce, the name of the employee’s position is shown. In the org
chart in People, the employee’s job assignment is shown.
Prevent gaps between Employment Status and Work Assignment dates
Controls whether Dayforce shows an error when you save an employee work assignment record
and the employee doesn't have an inclusive date range covered by their work assignment records
from their hire date. Select the checkbox, and Dayforce validates that there are no gaps in
employee work assignment dates.
Use predictive analytics for flight risk
Controls whether Dayforce uses the Predictive Analytics feature to calculate flight risk for
employees. By default, the Use predictive analytics for flight risk checkbox is selected, and
Dayforce uses Predictive Analytics to calculate each employee’s flight risk. When the Use
predictive analytics for flight risk checkbox is cleared, you can manually enter a flight risk rating
for each employee when completing their talent reviews in Home or People. See Flight Risk in the
HR Administration Guide.
Minimum age for new hires
Use the Minimum age for new hires field to override the default validation for the minimum age that
is entered for employees in Dayforce. Minimum age validation helps to prevent mistakes such as
entering the current date as the employee's date of birth.
By default, if you enter a date of birth in areas such as the New Hire form that is within three years
of the current date, Dayforce shows a warning message asking you to verify the entered date.
With warning messages, you can still save the record.
You can use the Minimum age for new hires field to set a custom minimum age that is enforced by
an error message rather than a warning message. For example, if you enter 14 and a user enters
a date of birth in the New Hire form that places the employee below 14 years of age, an error
message is generated and you can't save the record.
Minimum age validation is enforced in the following areas:
Candidate Hire form
New Hire form
Rehire form
HR Import
The Birth Date field in the General section of the Personal > Confidential Information screen
in People.
Disable View link for hourly rate/salary

-- 153 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 154 of 0
Select this checkbox to configure the Hourly Rate/Annual Salary field in the following areas so that
users can see the associated amount without clicking the View link:
The Compensation section of the Overview screen in People.
The Pay Information section of the Pay tab in the employee card.
The Payroll Information section of the Personal > About Me screen in Profile.
View link comparison
View Link Enabled 	View Link Not Enabled
Length of Service Date
Controls which date Dayforce uses to calculate an employee's length of service. By default, Most
Recent Hire Date is selected. The following options are avai