ournal
Number
The number of the credit account, used for taxes withheld from an
employee (for example, employment insurance tax), and for taxes paid
by an employer (for example, Social Security tax).
Credit Journal
Number
The number of the debit account used for taxable benefits, and memo
calc earnings, regular earnings, and reimbursements.
Manually Added
Tax
Checkbox that, when selected, indicates that the tax is a manually added
tax. Available to US legal entities only.
Columns in the Canadian Tax Authorities list
Column 	Description
Tax Authority 	The numeric designation in Dayforce for the tax authority.
DTS Tax ID 	Dayforce Tax Service Tax ID for the tax authority.
Tax Type 	Jurisdictional type of the tax authority, Federal or Province.
Tax Name 	Name given to the tax to appear in earning statements.
Description 	Description of the tax authority.
Employee Tax Checkbox that marks the tax as an employee tax when
selected.
Employer Tax Checkbox that marks the tax as an employer tax when
selected.
Client Responsible Tax
Checkbox that marks the tax as one not supported or filed by
DTS when selected. Client responsible taxes must be filed by
the employer.

-- 342 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 343 of 0
Company Tax
ID Number
Unique account number usually issued by the tax authority that is specific to
your company. For example, an employer health tax account number. Also
referred to as a Business Identification Number, or BIN for Canadian legal
entities.
Debit Journal
Number
The number of the credit account, used for taxes withheld from an employee
(for example, employment insurance tax), and for taxes paid by an employer
(for example, Social Security tax).
Credit Journal
Number
The number of the debit account, used for taxable benefits and memo calc
earnings, and regular earnings and reimbursements.
Columns in the UK Tax Authorities list
Column 	Description
Tax Authority Required. The numeric designation in Dayforce for the tax
authority. Auto populates, so no action required on user's part.
DTS Tax ID 	Not required for the UK.
Tax Type
Required. Jurisdictional type of the tax authority. Federal only. In
a UK legal entity tax authority, Federal indicates central
government.
Tax Name Required. Name given to the tax to appear in earning
statements.
Description 	Required. Description of the tax authority.
Employee Tax Required. Checkbox that, when selected, marks the tax as an
employee tax.
Employer Tax Required. Checkbox that, when selected, marks the tax as an
employer tax.
Client Responsible Tax
Required. Checkbox that, when selected, marks the tax as one
not supported or filed by DTS. Client responsible taxes must be
filed by the employer.
Company Tax ID Number Not required for the UK.
Applied For 	Not required for the UK.
Date Applied 	Not required for the UK.
Debit Journal Number 	Not required for the UK.
Credit Journal Number 	Not required for the UK.
Manually Added Tax 	Not required for the UK.
Manually Add Taxes
Before You Begin: Manually adding taxes is only available for US employees and legal entities.

-- 343 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 344 of 0
Important: If you’re an Implementation Consultant planning on making manual changes to either
state or federal tax rates or to state insurance rates—outside of the regular quarterly update done
by DTS—you must make sure of two things:
Ensure that you receive appropriate management approval for the change.
Ensure that the effective date of any change is set to the first of the quarter.
You can manually add taxes at the legal entity level for all or a filtered list of the entity’s
employees, or you can add taxes to individual employees. This allows you to correct omissions of
the application’s tax locator functionality.
For example, if Dayforce doesn’t fully recognize an address and can’t locate the appropriate local
or county taxes, you can manually add the appropriate tax.
Add New Taxes to Employees
Important: Manually added taxes must be tied to an address so that Dayforce knows if the tax still
applies. If the employee’s address changes, or the end date for a selected address has passed,
Dayforce automatically stops applying the tax to the employee’s pay.
To manually add a new tax to a US employee:
1. Go to People, open the employee profile, and click Payroll > Tax Definitions.
2. In the Employee Payroll Tax section, click Add New Taxes.
3. The application shows the Add New Taxes dialog box.
3. In the Tax Type drop-down list, select the type of tax you want to add.
4. Enter values in the other filter fields. You can filter by the tax authority's title, or filter by the
tax's description.
5. Click Apply Filter.
6. Dayforce shows a list of taxes that match your search terms.
6. Select the appropriate tax.
7. Select the employee's applicable from the Employee Address field.
8. Click Add Selected Tax.
9. The application adds the tax to the list shown in the Employee Payroll Tax section with the
Manually Added Tax checkbox selected.
Add New Taxes at the Legal Entity Level
You can manually add new taxes to a legal entity so that it applies to some or all of the legal
entity's employees.
To manually add new taxes at the legal entity level:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select the US legal entity.
2. Select the Tax Authorities tab.

-- 344 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 345 of 0
3. Click Add New Taxes.
4. Select the type of the tax that you want to add in the Tax Type drop-down list.
5. Search for the tax you want to add by providing values in the other filter options; you can
filter by the tax authority's title, or filter by the tax's description.
6. Click Apply Filter.
7. Select the appropriate tax.
8. Click Add Selected Tax to add the tax to the legal entity. Next, you need to define which
employees in the legal entity are taxed for the manually added tax.
9. Select the manually added tax.
10. In the Tax Qualifier section, click Add.
11. Specify an effective start of the new tax in the Effective Start field.
12. Do the following to specify which employees in the legal entity are taxed:
Leave the Locations field and the Work Location Overrides field blank and the tax is
applied to all of the legal entity's employees.
Specify values in the Locations field and the Work Location Overrides field to filter the
list of employees the tax is applied to.
13. For example, to configure Dayforce to apply only the new manually added tax to employees
working at three of the five locations in the legal entity, select those three locations in the
Locations field.
13. Click Save.
Configure Tax Exempt Status for US Legal Entities
Important: If you configure a legal entity as exempt from either the Federal Social Security or
Medicare Tax, you must mark the legal entity as tax exempt for both the employee and
corresponding employer tax. The application displays an error message if just one in the pair of
employee and employer tax for either the Federal Social Security or Medicare Tax is marked as
exempt.
To configure tax exempt status for a US legal entity:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Tax Authorities tab and select the tax authority in the list.
3. Click Add in the Tax Setting section, to the right of the list of tax authorities.
4. Enter a date in the Effective Start field to indicate when the legal entity and its employees'
tax exempt status begins.
5. (Optional) Enter a date in the Effective End field to indicate when the tax exempt status
expires.
6. Select the Exempt Tax Only, Update Wages checkbox to exempt the tax, but calculate
taxable wages. For some taxes, you can select the Exempt Tax And Taxable Wages
checkbox to apply the exemption and disregard the taxable wages.
7. Note: You can select either the Exempt Tax Only, Update Wages checkbox, or the Exempt
Tax and Taxable Wages checkbox, but not both.

-- 345 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 346 of 0
7. Click Save.
Tax Settings and Tax Qualifiers for Tax Authorities
Some employer and employee taxes have additional settings that can (or must) be configured so
that the taxes are calculated correctly. These settings are configured in the Tax Setting section for
a selected tax in the Tax Authorities tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
In addition to the Tax Setting section, some tax authorities also have a Tax Qualifier section.
Tax authority settings are available for taxes in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United
States. However, not all tax authorities have tax settings or tax qualifiers available. These sections
are available for those taxes where the federal, state, provincial, territorial, county, local, or other
tax authorities have legislated additional tax settings or configurations for the calculation or
collection of taxes.
Tax Setting Columns
Tax Setting columns
Column 	Description
Start Date 	Start date for the tax setting. Required.
End Date 	End date for the tax setting. Optional.
Exempt Tax Only, Update
Wages
Checkbox that you can select to apply an exemption to a tax
but track the taxable wages for information purposes. You
must select this checkbox for both FICA EE and FICA ER tax
types when you’re setting up tax authorities for a Medicare-
only legal entity. More information is available in Medicare-
Only Legal Entities and Filers.
Exempt Tax and Taxable
Wages
Select Yes to apply a tax exemption for legal entities exempt
from both Federal Medicare and Social Security Taxes. You
must select this checkbox for the following four tax types: Fed
MWT EE, Fed MWT ER, FICA EE, and FICA ER. More
information is available in Medicare-Only Legal Entities and
Filers.
The options or parameters that Dayforce shows in the Tax Setting section depend on which tax
authority you select in the Tax Authorities list.
Tax Setting Options
Not all tax authority types have configurable tax settings or the same tax setting options. The
following table lists some of the options and parameters that Dayforce shows for a tax authority
when you select it:

-- 346 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 347 of 0
Tax Setting options
Option 	Description
Alternate Calculation Code
Drop-down list for selecting an alternate calculation method
for:
State withholding tax for California:
01 - EXACT CALCULATION METHOD-CA
02 - BONUSES AND/OR STOCK OPTIONS
METHOD-CA
New York County (NY - Payroll Expense Tax
1 - Over $437,500
2 - Over $375,000 but not over $437,500
3 - Over $312,500 but not over $375,000
4 - Less than or equal to $312,500
Seattle City (King Country) - Payroll Expense Tax
1 - 7,000,000.00 up to $99,999,999.99
2 - 10,000,000.00 up to $999,999,999.99
3 - 1,000,000,000.00 or greater
Alternate Higher Wages
Indicates Dayforce uses alternate higher wages for state
unemployment tax for the following US states:
Nebraska: Employers in UI Tax Category 20 are subject
to the higher wage base.
Michigan: Delinquent employers might be subject to
the higher wage base.
Rhode Island: Employers with the highest experience
rate are subject to the higher wage base.

-- 347 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 348 of 0
Block ER
Wage
Reporting
This option overrides employer wage reporting for Illinois and Pennsylvania, if
you have employees in Illinois or Pennsylvania who work in another state and
your organization doesn’t have physical work locations in Illinois or
Pennsylvania. This option ensures that wages that the employee earns outside
of their state of residence are reported for the employee's state of residence
on their Form W-2, per the specific state rules.
This option is available only for the Illinois State Withholding tax and the
Pennsylvania State Withholding tax and only when there is no Company Tax ID
Number entry for the specific tax. By default, this checkbox is cleared.
Enable Tax
Payment
Deferral
Indicates the tax payment due on the Canadian provincial tax is deferred.
Generally, payment deferrals are part of a provincial tax deferral program.
Exemption
Allocation
Specifies if the Canadian employer qualifies for a tax exemption or not. The
exemption applies only to the Newfoundland & Labrador Health and Post
Secondary Education Tax (HAPSET) and Ontario Employer Health Tax (EHT).
You can select from the following exemption types:
Full Exemption. The employer claims the full exemption or threshold
amount.
No Exemption. The employer isn’t claiming an exemption.
Partial Exemption. The employer is claiming a part of the full exemption
or threshold amount. You can enter the exemption amount claimed in
Exemption Amount.
Exemption
Amount
The employer's exemption amount claimed when you select the partial tax
exemption option in Exemption Allocation. The exemption amount applies only
to the following Canadian taxes:
Newfoundland & Labrador Health and Post Secondary Education Tax
(HAPSET)
Ontario Employer Health Tax (EHT)
When the field is left blank, no exemption amount is applied and taxes are
calculated using the latest payroll tax rates.
Experience
Rate
Field where you can enter the unemployment tax contribution rate in a decimal
format to override the default system rate in Dayforce. For example, enter
3.5% as 0.035.
This option is available with regular and voluntary employer/employee plans
where the rate is different from the standard state rate assigned by the

-- 348 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 349 of 0
agency. Normally, the state agency assigns an experience rate if you have a
different rate from the standard rate.
Gross Annual
Payroll
Field to enter the amount of payroll that the organization pays all of its
employees (before taxes) from January 1 to December 31.
Quarterly
Formula
Indicates that you want to use the formula for paying taxes quarterly over
the year. Applies to US State Employer Unemployment Tax only. Often, this
checkbox is selected by default and can’t be cleared.
Reciprocity
Indicates that the state in which the employee resides has a reciprocal tax
agreement with the state in which the employee works. Often, this checkbox
is selected by default and can’t be cleared.
Rpt Full Subject
Wages
When selected, indicates the tax wage and the full subject wage amounts
are reported as the same in the Dayforce Tax Service (DTS) file even though
the wage limit has been exceeded. Used by reimbursable employers in all
US states, except North Dakota, Oklahoma, and Wyoming.
Self Adjust
Code
Checkbox that, when selected, instructs Dayforce to attempt to make up
any shortfalls if too little tax is withheld for the current pay period. Often, this
checkbox is selected by default and can’t be cleared.
Self Insured
Flag
Indicates that the organization is self-insured and acts as its own issuer to
pay for worker's compensation claims directly out of the organization's own
pocket, instead of paying a traditional third-party insurer. Applies to US
State Employer Unemployment Tax.
Supplemental
Tax Method
Drop-down list with several options to set the supplemental tax method to
be applied to the tax type:
PR Christmas Bonus
Regular Without Exemptions
Supplemental Cumulative Method
Supplemental Flat Rate
Supplemental Rate Table
Supplemental System Selected
Supplemental With Separate Aggregation
Use Zero Rate Checkbox that you can select to override the default rate of certain taxes
and instead use a rate of zero in the tax calculations.
The jurisdiction for which the tax was legislated determines the specific settings or qualifiers for
tax authorities. Some examples that are documented here are:
BC Employer Health Tax (BC EHT)
Employment Allowance and SER for Legal Entities
Specify Employee Tax Percentage for Washington Paid Family Leave

-- 349 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 350 of 0
Tax Qualifiers
Similar to how some tax authorities have tax settings, some tax settings have associated tax
qualifiers. Tax qualifiers are used in relation to tax settings to configure qualifiers for the tax setting
for a given tax authority. They’re often associated with manually added municipal, local, or other
taxes, for example, Joint Economic Development Districts, or JEDDs. The qualifiers section
generally contains the following:
Effective Start and Effective End dates:
Locations: Locations specific to the legal entity associated with the tax authority.
Work Location Overrides: Overrides to the location setting with which you can specify the
physical location where the employee works, ensuring that the employee’s taxes are
properly calculated based on that physical location.
Projects: Projects specific to the legal entity associated with the tax authority.
The Dayforce Tax Service engine automatically locates tax authorities based on published
regulatory records of physical geographic boundaries. Where a tax authority does NOT have a
physical boundary that can be located, you can use the Tax Qualifiers section as an override to
specify a work location that should locate this tax on an employee assigned to that location.
Tax Rates
Similar to how some tax authorities have tax settings, some, but not all, tax settings have
associated tax rates. Tax rates are used for some tax authorities like Workers’ Compensation to
configure specific tax rates for those tax withholdings. For example, for some workers’
compensation withholdings have different rates for both employer and employee.
The following two tables contain details about the workers’ compensation tax authorities for
employer and employee for specific states that must be specially configured:
US Employer Tax Authorities for Workers’ Compensation
Tax Authority 	Tax Name
USA-00350000-030 	New Mexico State - Employer Worker Compensation Tax
USA-00380000-030 	North Dakota State - Employer Worker Compensation Tax
USA-00390000-030 	Ohio State - Employer Worker Compensation Tax
USA-00410000-030 	Oregon State - Employer Worker Compensation Tax
USA-00530000-030 	Washington State - Employer Worker Compensation Tax
USA-00560000-030 	Wyoming State - Employer Worker Compensation Tax
US Employee Tax Authorities for Workers’ Compensation
Tax Authority 	Tax Name
USA-00350000-040 	New Mexico State - Employee Worker Compensation Tax
USA-00410000-040 	Oregon State - Employee Worker Compensation Tax

-- 350 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 351 of 0
USA-00530000-040 	Washington State - Employee Worker Compensation Tax
Important: Dayforce Tax Service calculates, remits, and files your Workers Compensation Taxes in
New Mexico, Oregon, and Wyoming. Additional information may be required for the calculation for
the tax authorities above. The Workers Compensation Report will not provide complete information
needed for accurate calculations for the states listed above.
You must enter the Employee Class Code, an effective start date, and the experience rate. Note
that only one employee class code can be default for the specific workers compensation taxation
your legal entity should be withholding. Information about the rate you should be using each year
is provided to you by the state or by your private plan provider.
Employee class codes entered in the Rates section panel must then be linked to each employee
record in that jurisdiction in the People feature, in the Payroll > Tax Definitions screen.
See Configure Workers' Comp Legal Entity Policies and Rates.
Apply Supplemental Tax Method (US Only)
You can assign supplemental tax calculations for state withholding taxes at the legal-entity level,
which applies the calculation method to all employees in the legal entity.
Important: After you configure the supplemental tax method at the legal entity level, the
application overrides any other tax method configurations at the check template or earning level.
This information in this topic is divided into the following tasks and concepts:
Configure Supplemental Tax Methods
Configure Zero Rate Tax Calculation
PSD Codes for Pennsylvania
Configure Supplemental Tax Methods
To configure supplemental tax methods at the legal entity level:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Tax Authorities tab and select the tax authority.
3. Click Add in the Tax Setting section, to the right of the list of tax authorities.
4. Enter a date in the Effective Start field to indicate when the tax starts using the supplemental
tax method.
5. (Optional) Enter a date in the Effective End field to indicate when the supplemental tax
method expires.
6. Select an option in the Supplemental Tax Method drop-down list, if applicable. For the
Supplemental Flat Rate tax method, select an option in the Supplemental Alternate
Calculation Method drop-down list.
7. Click Save.

-- 351 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 352 of 0
Configure Zero Rate Tax Calculation
If necessary, you can override the default rate of certain taxes and instead use a rate of zero in the
tax calculations. The Use Zero Rate checkbox is available for the following:
At the legal entity level:
Federal Social Security Tax
Federal Medicare Tax
Federal Unemployment Tax
Colorado Unemployment Tax
Aurora City Occupation Tax
At the employee level:
Federal Social Security Tax
Federal Medicare Tax
Federal Unemployment Tax
VA DRT
VA SUI
To configure a zero rate tax calculation:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Tax Authorities tab and select the tax authority.
3. Click Add in the Tax Setting section, to the right of the list of tax authorities.
4. The application displays several additional fields.
4. Enter a date in the Effective Start field to indicate when the tax starts following reciprocity
rules.
5. (Optional) Enter a date in the Effective End field to indicate when the reciprocity rules expire.
6. Select the Use Zero Rate checkbox and click Save.
PSD Codes for Pennsylvania
Dayforce automatically determines the correct Political Subdivision Code (PSD) for both work
location addresses and employee primary residential addresses. PSD codes are six -digit
numbers that designate each of the 69 tax collection districts in the state of Pennsylvania, which
are used to ensure that taxes are remitted to the proper taxing authority.
The application displays the read-only PSD Code field in the Personal > Contact Information
screen of People for employees whose primary residence address is in Pennsylvania. It
automatically updates the code if the primary residence changes to an address in a different tax
collection district.
PSD Codes are also displayed in the Address tab of Org Setup > Organization for physical
locations defined in Org Setup once an employee has been assigned to work at the physical

-- 352 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 353 of 0
location.
This information is provided to Dayforce Tax Service to help ensure that taxes are remitted to the
appropriate taxing authority.
BC Employer Health Tax (BC EHT)
The British Columbia Employer Health Tax (BC EHT) is payable by employers on the earnings of
their BC employees when total BC employee earnings exceed the yearly exemption limit.
The remittance requirements for BC EHT specify that employers must pay this tax in equal
quarterly installments that are based on an estimate of the total earnings for BC employees for the
year. If the amount of tax paid based on the estimate is lower than the actual amount owing, the
outstanding amount is subject to interest.
These remittance requirements are different from those of other Canadian provincial health taxes
for which installment amounts vary and are based on the actual tax calculated during the
installment.
Important: Because the installments of BC EHT are based on estimated earnings and require
equal installments, Dayforce does not support the calculation or remittance of this tax and only
supports the tracking of taxable wages. This means that you need to calculate and remit this tax
to the BC government outside of Dayforce.
While the application does not calculate or remit this tax, you still need to update the tax details in
Dayforce to track taxable wages. Dayforce provides the tax value BC EHT in the Tax Authorities
tab for Canadian legal entities in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity. The tax authority
number for BC EHT is 1011000020.
In the Company Tax ID Number column for this tax, you need to record the BC tax account
number for the legal entity. If the legal entity doesn't have a BC tax account number, you can enter
EHT-9999-9999 as a placeholder.
In the Tax Setting section for this tax, you need to create a record with effective start and end
dates covering the year. As is the case with other health taxes, you need to create a tax setting
record each year.
If you select the Exempt Tax and Taxable Wages checkbox in the record, the application does not
track taxable wages. It is a best practice to leave this checkbox cleared so that you can monitor
whether the legal entity is nearing or over the exemption limit for the tax, and to ensure the
estimated installment amounts do not fall below the actual tax owing.
Because the application does not calculate this tax, the Exemption Allocation, Exemption Amount
and Gross Annual Payroll parameters of the record are non-editable.
Information about Calculating Tax Installments

-- 353 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 354 of 0
You can calculate the tax installments using the health tax calculator on the BC government
website: https://forms.gov.bc.ca/taxes/employer-health-tax-calculator/.
In this calculator, you need to enter an estimate of total BC earnings based on the lesser of
the following:
the previous year's tax
estimated tax for the current year
You can obtain the BC earnings recorded in Dayforce for the previous year by running the
Payroll Summary Report. Group the report by work province and run it for the relevant legal
entities. In the report, the Gross to Net section for BC displays the total earnings.
You need to monitor the taxable wages of the BC EHT tax in Dayforce for the current year to
ensure that the estimated earnings that are used to calculate the installment do not fall
below the actual earnings. This will allow you to avoid interest fees for extra amounts owing.
You can monitor this by running the Payroll Summary Report. Group the report by work
province and run it for the relevant legal entities. In the report, the Tax Expense Summary
section for BC displays the limited taxable wages for BC EHT.
More information about BC EHT is located on the BC government
website: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/taxes/employer-health-tax.
Configure Reduced Quebec Health Services Fund (HSF) Rates
Client administrators can configure a reduced Quebec Health Services Fund (HSF) rate. The
reduced rate applies to qualified Quebec legal entities identified as small or mid-sized businesses
(SMBs) in the primary and manufacturing sectors with less than $5 million in annual payroll.
To configure reduced Quebec HSF rates:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Tax Authorities tab and select the Quebec Health Services Fund.
3. In the Tax Setting section to the right, click Add.
4. In the Effective Start field, enter the date that the reduced rate takes effect.
5. (Optional) In the Effective End field, enter the date that the rate expires.
6. Select the Exempt Tax And Taxable Wages checkbox, if necessary.
7. In the Gross Annual Payroll field, enter the amount for the setting.
8. In the Reduction of the HSF Contribution Rate drop-down list, select SMB in the Primary or
Manufacturing Sector.
9. Click Save.
When configured, Dayforce applies a reduced HSF rate based on the legal entity's gross annual
payroll total.
Part XIII Tax

-- 354 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 355 of 0
Part XIII tax is a federal withholding tax on specific types of income paid out to employees who
are non-residents of Canada. As a Canadian employer, you must withhold this tax and remit them
to the Canadian Revenue Agency (CRA) as well as fill out a NR4 slip for every non-resident whose
income was deducted.
Dayforce calculates the Part XIII tax on earnings that are configured to report the tax, and on
employees set up as non-residents in their employee record in People. See Earnings Subject to
Part XIII Tax.
In Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, the Part XIII tax authority is shown in the Tax
Authorities tab for Canadian legal entities.
In the Company Tax ID Number column for this tax, you need to record your organization's non-
resident account number. You must include the letters NRF at the beginning of the account
number. This account number is used on the NR4 slips.
In the Tax Setting section for this tax, you can override the default tax rate by entering a value
between 0 and 25%. Any other value will be ignored and the default rate is applied instead.
More information about Part XIII tax is available on the Canadian government
website: https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/international-non-
residents/payments-non-residents/nr4-part-xiii-tax/part-xiii-withholding-tax.html.
Employment Allowance and SER for Legal Entities
Eligible employers can configure UK legal entities in Dayforce to claim an Employment Allowance
or Small Employers' Relief (SER).
The Employment Allowance can qualify the legal entity for a reduction in its National Insurance bill.
For details about Employment Allowance and employer eligibility requirements, see the site
https://www.gov.uk/claim-employment-allowance.
Important: As of 6 April 2020, there is no longer a flat-rate amount for the Employment Allowance.
Employers must apply to be awarded an Employment Allowance, and the amount can be different
for each employer. The amount is also cleared at the start of every fiscal year and must therefore
be entered manually each year.
The SER can qualify a legal entity to reclaim certain amounts for statutory pay, (for example,
Statutory Maternity Pay, Paternity, Adoption and Shared Parental Pay). Detailed information about
partial and full recovery of SER, as well as the rules governing the effective start date and the
calculation of SER, can be found at https://www.gov.uk/recover-statutory-payments.
Employment Allowance details and Small Employers' Relief are included in the EPS file
transmitted to HMRC, which you can verify in the Tax Month Management sub-tab in Payroll
> Post Commit Management, in the Tax Month Preview slide-out panel, in the EPS Summary tab.

-- 355 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 356 of 0
Employment Allowance and Small Employers' Relief are both configured in Org Setup > Org
Payroll Setup > Organization for a selected legal entity, in the Tax Setting section of the Tax
Authorities tab for the National Insurance ER (employer) entry. These tax settings are start-date
effective, because requirements can change at the start of the tax year. To allow for mid-year
implementation, enter the start date that the parameters go into effect to ensure that the correct
processing period is used for calculation.
The Tax Setting section for National Insurance ER (employer) contains the following options:
Agriculture Sector: Select this checkbox to indicate that the tax setting is for the agriculture
sector. This is included in the EPS file.
Annual Apprenticeship Levy Allowance: If applicable, enter the annual apprenticeship
allowance.
Eligibility for Employment Allowance: Select this checkbox to indicate that the employment
allowance must be calculated.
Employment Allowance: Enter the annual employment allowance amount. As of 6 April
2020, the employment allowance amount must be entered manually every year.
Expected annual payroll exceeds Apprenticeship Levy Threshold: Select this checkbox to
indicate that the annual payment exceeds the apprenticeship levy threshold and that the
annual apprenticeship levy must be calculated.
Important: If you select this checkbox, you must also select one of the sector checkboxes or
the State Aid Rules Do Not Apply checkbox, otherwise you will not be able to save this
record.
Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector: Select this checkbox to indicate that the tax setting is for
the fisheries and aquaculture sector. This is included in the EPS file.
Industrial Sector: Select this checkbox to indicate that the tax setting is for the industrial
sector. This is included in the EPS file.
Road Transport Sector: Select this checkbox to indicate that the tax setting is for the road
transport sector. Included in the EPS file.
State Aid Rules Do Not Apply: Select this checkbox to indicate that the tax setting is exempt
from state aid rules.
Statutory Payment Recovery Type: Select one of the following options: None, Partial, or Full.
None: The statutory recovery compensation isn’t applicable. This is also the option if
the field is left blank.
Partial: Recovery = Amount*92% and NIC Compensation = 0.
Full: Recovery = Amount and NIC Compensation = Amount*3%.
The NIC Compensation values are calculated and displayed at the employee level for general
ledger purposes in the same way as the recovery values. The values are also displayed in the Tax
Month Management sub-tab for EPS and reported as RTI data items in the EPS file as follows:
97 - Value of NIC compensation on SMP year to date
98 - Value of NIC compensation on SPP year to date

-- 356 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 357 of 0
99 - Value of NIC compensation on SAP year to date
100 - Value of NIC compensation on ShPP year to date
Specify Employee Tax Percentage for Washington Paid Family Leave
The Washington state paid family leave program provides up to 12 weeks of protected leave in a
12-month period for eligible employees. By default, the employee pays up to 63% of the premium
cost (EPFL & EMLI combined) and the employer pays the remaining 37% (MLIR).
You have the option to specify the percentage rate responsible by employees and employers for
Washington Paid Family Leave employee taxes and medical premiums in Dayforce for medical
leave and paid family leave (regular and voluntary) tax authorities. For example, you can pay more
than the 37%, such as a 50/50 amount, to override the contribution amount by the employee or
employer that doesn’t allow selecting an option below 37%.
You can specify the unemployment insurance tax rate based on the employer's experience rating
that was assigned by the state agency (that is, other than the standard rate) in the Experience
Rate field in the Tax Setting section. By doing so, you override the default contribution rate that is
used in the system and apply the specified rate to all employees for its tax authority. When
specifying the unemployment tax rate in the Experience Rate field, enter the percentage rate in a
decimal format. For example, if the tax unemployment rate is 3.25%, enter 0.0325. See Tax
Settings and Tax Qualifiers for Tax Authorities.
To specify percentage rate for Washington paid family leave employee taxes:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a US legal entity.
2. Click the Tax Authorities tab and select the Washington tax authority from the list displayed.
For example, Washington - Paid Family Leave Voluntary - Employer.
3. Click New in the Tax Setting section, to the right of the list of tax authorities.
4. Enter the date that the unemployment insurance leave starts in the Effective Start field.
5. (Optional) Enter the date that the unemployment insurance leave expires in the Effective
End field.
6. Enter the unemployment insurance tax rate that was assigned to you by the state agency in
the Experience Rate field in a decimal format.
7. Click Save.
The Customer Funding Identifiers Tab
This topic describes the Customer Funding Identifiers tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup
> Legal Entity, which is described in detail in Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity. Customer funding
identifiers are used to identify bank account information for a legal entity.
Note: If you logged in with the English (United Kingdom) culture setting, the Legal Entity tab is
called Organisation.

-- 357 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 358 of 0
The Customer Funding Identifiers tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has a list of
any tax authorities configured for the legal entity. The toolstrip in the Customer Funding Identifiers
tab contains the following buttons:
Add: Adds a customer funding identifier.
Copy: Copies an existing customer funding identifier.
Delete: Deletes an existing customer funding identifier.
Localize: Opens the Localize dialog box to localize the customer funding identifier.
Dayforce shows the following columns, depending on country:
Is Default
Name
Description
Reference Code
Funding Identifier (Canada)
Tax Service ID (US)
Service User Number (UK)
Technical ID (Nuapay) (UK)
Effective Start
Effective End
Note: Each US legal entity must have a default funding identifier configured for each effective
period.
When you select an existing customer funding identifier, the Bank Account Setting section is
shown. The section has a toolstrip with Add, Delete, Approve Online Check Verification Document,
and Localize buttons.
To learn more about the Approve Online Check Verification Document button, see Print and
Approve the Check Verification Document.
Dayforce shows the following columns in the Bank Account Setting section:
Approved
Name
Description
Effective Start
Effective End
Online CVD Approved (US)
Online CVD Approved On (US)
Printed CVD Approval Site (US)
Printed CVD Approval File Sent On (US)
Printed CVD Approved On (US)

-- 358 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 359 of 0
Approved On (US)
When you add a bank account in the Bank Account Setting section, Dayforce shows the tabs
Payroll Check and Direct Deposit, Third Party Payee and Bank Transfer.
Some of the buttons, columns, and tabs described for the Bank Account Setting section are
available only for specific operating countries of legal entities. For more details about how to
configure the customer funding identifier for your legal entity's operating country, see one of the
following topics.
Configure Customer Funding Identifiers for Mauritius Legal Entities
Enter Customer Funding Identifiers for Irish Legal Entities
Enter Customer Funding Identifiers for UK Legal Entities
Enter Customer Funding Identifiers for Australian Legal Entities
Customer Funding Identifiers for Canadian Legal Entities
Configure the Funding Bank Account for Singapore Payroll
Suppress or Override “Payroll Check” in Non-ODC Printed Checks
You can override the default message in non-Official Dayforce Checks (ODC) payroll checks that
are printed. Instead of the default message “Payroll Check”, the text is replaced by the alternate
message that you’ve configured in Payroll Setup > Bank Accounts for that bank account.
Before You Begin: This topic describes the Check Details section in the Bank Accounts tab in
Payroll Setup > Bank Accounts, described in the topic The Check Details Section in the Bank
Accounts Tab. It also describes the Customer Funding Identifiers tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll
Setup > Legal Entity, which is described in detail in the topic Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity
Configure the Replacement Message
1. Go to Payroll Setup > Bank Accounts and select the bank account to edit.
2. In the Check Details section, select the checkbox next to the option Use for Non-Dayforce
Checks.
3. In the Authorizing Messages 2 field, enter the alternate message to display on non-Dayforce
checks.
4. Click Save.
Configure the Customer Funding Identifier Information
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select the Legal Entity to edit.
2. Click the Customer Funding Identifier tab.
3. In the Bank Account Setting, add a new (or select an existing) entry to configure for non-
Dayforce checks.
4. Click the Payroll Check and Direct Deposit sub-tab or the Customer Funding Identifier sub-
tab.

-- 359 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 360 of 0
5. Click Approve Online Verification Document, click Approve, then click Save.
6. Click Generate Printed CVD for Client Approval, enter the delivery information, then click
OK.
Related information is available in Print and Approve the Check Verification Document.
The Employment Insurance Tab
The Employment Insurance tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has a list of any
employment insurance entries for the legal entity. The toolstrip in the Employment Insurance tab
contains the following controls:
Add: Button to add an employment insurance entry.
Copy: Button to copy an existing employment insurance entry.
Delete: Button to delete an existing employment insurance entry.
If you select an existing entry, or if you add one, Dayforce shows the following columns:
Rate Group: Required name for the rate group
Reference Code: Required reference (XRef) code
For Canadian legal entities, enter the four-digit reference number for RP (payroll
deductions).
Is Default: Checkbox to indicate the default rate when more than one exists
When you select one of the employment insurance entries, Dayforce shows a Rates section that
has the following columns:
Rate: Required field for the employment insurance rate
Start Date: Required field for the start date
End Date: Optional field for the end date
The Workers Comp Tab
The Workers Comp tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has a list of any tax
authorities configured for the legal entity.
For Canada legal entities, you must configure WCB rates for all provinces in which your legal
entity has employees.
For US legal entities, the Workers Comp tab is used to add information about the organization and
its legal entities to the Workers Compensation Report. The report allows a client to collect data and
complete state-required filing returns or to provide the required information to third-party providers
who assist with these filings.
In this tab, it is recommended that US legal entities do not configure the workers compensation
states and rates that are being calculated in the Tax Authorities tab (NM, ND, OH, OR, WA, WY).

-- 360 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 361 of 0
See Tax Settings and Tax Qualifiers for Tax Authorities. Information for these states should be
obtained from existing tax reports available in Dayforce and used to complete each state’s filing
returns or to provide to third-party providers who assist with these filings. Note that Dayforce Tax
Service will file NM, OR, and WY Workers Compensation for the client when you’ve configured all
the information in the Tax Authorities tab and/or at the employee level.
The toolstrip in the Workers Comp tab contains the following controls:
Add: Button to add a workers comp entry.
Copy: Button to copy an existing workers comp entry.
Delete: Button to delete an existing workers comp entry.
Localize: Button to localize the workers comp entry.
The columns that the application displays in the list depends on the operating country as selected
in the Address tab. The columns for
State / Province:
Account / Policy Number:
Name:
Description:
Start Date:
End Date:
Earning Groupings:
Is Default:
When you have created a new workers comp entry, or selected an existing one, the Rates section
is displayed containing a toolstrip with Add, Copy, and Delete buttons, and a list for rates
containing the following columns:
Workers Comp Class Code: Drop-down list with workers comp class codes that you have
configured in Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments. The Workers Compensation Report
shows the employee wages for the class codes configured here. There is also a report
setting that allows you to report on jobs without a class code configured.
Start Date:
End Date:
Employer Rate:
Employee Rate:
Is Default:
The Tax Remittance Tab
The Tax Remittance tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has a list of any tax
remittance entries for the legal entity.

-- 361 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 362 of 0
For legal entities in Canada, you must configure the application to remit taxes through the
Government Remittance System (GRS) in the Dayforce Back Office system. You must also specify
the frequency at which those taxes will be remitted. This is to ensure that tax remittances are
made correctly and on time.
The toolstrip in the Tax Remittance tab contains the following controls:
Add: Button to add a tax remittance entry.
Copy: Button to copy an existing tax remittance entry.
Delete: Button to delete an existing tax remittance entry.
If you select an existing entry, or if you add one, the columns that the application displays in the
list are:
Authority: Required drop-down list with available tax remittance authorities:
Canada Federal
Manitoba
Newfoundland/Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Quebec
Remittance Frequency: Required drop-down list with available remittance frequency types:
Quarterly
Regular (Monthly)
Threshold 1 (Semi-Monthly)
Threshold 2 (Weekly)
Is Remitted: Checkbox to ensure that the tax is remitted
Start Date
End Date
When you select one of the employment insurance entries, the application displays a Rates
section that displays the following columns:
Rate: Required field for the employment insurance rate
Start Date: Required field for the start date
End Date: Optional field for the end date
Instructions for this task are available in Configure GRS Tax Remittance (Canada only).
The YTD Amount Tab

-- 362 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 363 of 0
The YTD Amount tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has a list of any year-to-
date entries for the legal entity. The toolstrip in the YTD Amount tab contains the following controls:
Add: Button to add a pay group and funding identifier set to in the YTD Amount tab.
Delete: Button to delete an existing pay group and funding identifier set.
If you select an existing entry, or if you add one, the columns that the application displays in the
list are:
Pay Group: Required drop-down list with the pay groups set up in Pay Setup > Pay Group.
Used to determine year-to-date amounts.
Funding Identifier: Drop-down list with the funding identifiers set up in the Customer Funding
Identifiers tab of Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity for the legal entity.
When you select one of the pay group entries, the application displays a corresponding section to
the right containing the following sections and options:
Migration Year: Drop-down list with available years.
Employer Employment Insurance (EI): A section with Add and Delete buttons. If you add a
new entry or select an existing one, a list in the section displays the following fields:
EI Rate Group
Tot Taxable Wage
LTD Taxable Wage
Taxes
Employer Canada Pension Plan (CPP): A section with Add and Delete buttons. If you add a
new entry or select an existing one, a list in the section displays the following fields:
EI Rate Group
Tot Taxable Wage
LTD Taxable Wage
Taxes
Health Taxes:
British Columbia EHT:
Tot Taxable Wage
Ltd Taxable Wage
Newfoundland HAPSET:
Tot Taxable Wage
Ltd Taxable Wage
Taxes
Quebec HSF:
Tot Taxable Wage
Taxes
Employer Quebec Pension Plan (QPP):
Tot Taxable Wage

-- 363 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 364 of 0
Ltd Taxable Wage
Taxes
Manitoba HET:
Tot Taxable Wage
Ltd Taxable Wage
Taxes
Ontario EHT:
Tot Taxable Wage
Ltd Taxable Wage
Taxes
Quebec Parental Insurance Plan (QPIP):
Tot Taxable Wage
Ltd Taxable Wage
Taxes
Additional Information
You should only use the YTD Amount tab if you can’t include one or more employer taxes in the
Pay Run History Import as part of the implementation process. For details about that import,
download the Dayforce Interface Specifications ZIP file and see the Dayforce Pay Run History
Import Specification document.
When a Canadian legal entity migrates to using the Payroll feature, or if you are implementing a
Canadian customer with mid-year go-live date, use of the YTD Amount tab in Org Setup > Org
Payroll Setup > Legal Entity is required for Canadian legal entities that have made payments for
ON EHT, QC HSF, NL HAPSET, or MB HE Levy.
Multiple Worksite Reporting
Multiple Worksite Reporting helps in the collection of statistical reporting data for employers who
have more than one physical worksite in a state; that is, a primary worksite and at least one
secondary worksite.
Before You Begin: This topic applies to US legal entities only.
Generally, the Multiple Worksite Report (or MWR) is required for employers who have a total of 10
or more employees in a state with both primary and secondary worksite locations that are covered
under a single State Unemployment Insurance (or SUI) account. This means that if your
organization has multiple worksites in a state, and the total number of employees working in all
locations in the state is 10 or more, you are probably required to file the Multiple Worksite Report.
For information about Multiple Worksite Reporting, including requirements, see the U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics site, https://www.bls.gov/respondents/mwr/home.htm.
Configuring Multiple Worksite Reporting involves the following:

-- 364 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 365 of 0
Adding unique worksite numbers to each worksite location for a legal entity (in Org Setup
> Org Payroll Setup > Multiple Worksite Reporting).
If you're already familiar with the concepts covered in this topic, you can go to Configure Multiple
Worksite Reporting.
To configure Multiple Worksite Reporting in Dayforce, you must assign unique worksite numbers to
each location that is covered under a single SUI account. Assigning each worksite location a
unique identification number allows you to report all locations covered under that SUI.
You can add as many worksites as necessary. After you have configured your worksites, you must
assign the worksite numbers to the appropriate site locations in the organizational hierarchy under
Organization > Legal Entity, in the slide-out panel for the site, in the Legal Entity tab, in the
Worksite [State-Number] drop-down list.
Multiple Worksite Reporting for Legal Entities
A list of multiple worksite reporting locations for US legal entities is shown in Org Setup > Org
Payroll Setup > Multiple Working Reporting if you have added any worksites.
You can configure multiple worksite location entries to produce the Multiple Worksite Report. Enter
the name and contact details of the person responsible for multiple worksite reporting for the legal
entity.
Multiple Worksite Reporting options
Option 	Description
Multiple Worksite Reporting
Select the checkbox to configure the legal entity to use
multiple worksite reporting.
Important: If you select the Multiple Worksite Reporting
checkbox, you must also enter contact details in the
provided fields.
Multiple Worksite Contact Name Name of the contact for multiple worksite reporting.
Mandatory.
Title 	Title of the multiple worksite contact. Mandatory.
Phone Number Phone number of the multiple worksite contact.
Mandatory.
Configure Multiple Worksite Reporting
Some states require legal entities to define and assign worksite numbers to all their locations when
those legal entities have multiple locations that are covered under a single Unemployment

-- 365 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 366 of 0
Insurance (UI) account. Those states then require those legal entities to report on those locations.
The following states are required to file Multiple Worksite Reports: Alabama, California, Colorado,
Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska,
Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma,
Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
Multiple worksite reporting can only be configured on legal entities with locations in the United
States.
To configure multiple worksite reporting:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Multiple Worksite Reporting and select a legal entity.
2. Select the Multiple Worksite Reporting checkbox.
3. Provide a multiple worksite contact name, title, and phone number in the available fields.
4. Click Add.
5. Select the state in the Worksite State drop-down list.
6. Enter the five-digit, numeric Worksite Number assigned for the worksite. This number is
provided by the state.
7. Enter a name and description of the worksite in the available fields.
8. Enter the reference code.
9. Enter effective dates for the worksite.
10. Enter the worksite's address in the available fields.
11. Select a comment code in the Comments drop-down list. These are provided by the US
Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics.
12. Click Save.
You can configure as many worksites as necessary. After you configure worksites, you need to
assign the worksite numbers to the appropriate locations in the organizational hierarchy.
Assigning Worksite Numbers
To assign worksite numbers to the physical location or site it represents in the organizational
hierarchy:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. Browse the hierarchy, clicking the arrow button to expand levels, until you find the location
or site that you want assigned a worksite number.
3. Select the location and then click the Legal Entity tab.
4. Select the worksite number in the Worksite Name [State-Number] drop-down list.
5. Click Save.
The Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters Tab

-- 366 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 367 of 0
The Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity
has a list of any tax authorities configured for the legal entity. The toolstrip in the Quarterly/Annual
Reporting Parameters tab contains the following controls:
Add: Button to add a multiple worksite reporting entry.
Copy: Button to copy an existing multiple worksite reporting entry.
Delete: Button to delete an existing multiple worksite reporting entry.
When you have created a new quarterly/annual reporting parameters entry, or you have selected
an existing one, a list is displayed containing the following columns:
Jurisdiction: Depending on which option you select, a section is displayed to the right that
contains additional settings.
Start Date
End Date
See US Legal Entity Specific Tax Reporting Parameters.
Federal and State options
Jurisdiction drop-down
selection Fields displayed to the right
USA Federal
Kind of Employer: Drop-down list with the following
options:
Federal Government
None Apply
State and Local Governmental Employer
Tax Exempt Employer
State and Local Tax Exempt Employer
Employment Code: Drop-down list with the following
options:
Agriculture - Form 943
Regular - Form 944
Household - Schedule H
Military - Form 941
Medicare Qualified Government Employment -
Form 941
Regular - Form 941
Regular - Form 945
Railroad - CT-1
Terminated Business: Checkbox
Retirement Plan Eligible: Drop-down list with options
[None], No, and Yes

-- 367 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 368 of 0
Annual Tax Filing Other EIN: Field for the former FEIN of a legal entity if
the legal entity reorganizes mid-year and uses a new FEIN number. This
field populates the otherEIN field in the XML file.
Account Number on 1099R: Drop-down list with the options:
None
1099R Form Id
Contractor Tax Form Type: This drop-down list is empty by default. If no
selection is made, the form 1099-NEC is used by default. The drop-down
contains the following options:
1099-M
1099-NEC
1099 Payer Phone Number: The payer's telephone number you want to
include in the 1099-M, 1099-NEC, and 1099-R forms.
Canada
Federal
Dental Plan Available: Indicates the code used to complete Box 45 in T4 slips
and Box 15 in the T4A slips to comply with the Dental Care Measures Act.
Alaska 	Alaska Geo Area Code
Maine Seasonal Period Start
Seasonal Period End
Montana
Reimbursable ER: If you are a Montana SUI reimbursable employer, when this
option is selected, the Subject Wages to the Limit is replaced by Full Subject
Wages in the quarterly filing.
This feature has been replaced by the Rpt Full Subject Wages tax setting in
Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entities in the Tax Authorities tab, and
should no longer be used.
New York Dependent Medical Insurance
Northern
Mariana
Islands
Box D - CNMI NAICS Employee class code: Used for the six-digit industry
code of your business. For more information about the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS), go to https://www.census.gov/naics/.
Puerto Rico Cease of Operation (Closing) Date
Employer Phone Number for Puerto Rico
Vermont 	Healthcare Coverage
The Fiscal Calendar Tab
The Fiscal Calendar tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has a list of any fiscal
calendars configured for the legal entity. The toolstrip in the Fiscal Calendar tab contains the

-- 368 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 369 of 0
following controls:
Add: Button to create a fiscal calendar.
Copy: Button to copy an existing fiscal calendar.
Delete: Button to delete an existing fiscal calendar.
The following columns are displayed for entries in the Fiscal Calendar tab:
Start Date: Start date of the fiscal calendar year. Required.
End Date: End date of the fiscal calendar year. Optional.
Fiscal Calendar: Name of the fiscal calendar. Required.
This tab is displayed as the Financial Calendar tab when you are logged in with English (UK) or
English (Ireland) culture setting.
The Revenue Parameters Tab
The Revenue parameters tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity displays if you have
selected an Irish legal entity. This tab contains settings required for the transmission of
ROS certificates to the Office of the Revenue Commissioners configured for the legal entity.
The following options are available in the Revenue parameters tab:
At the top of the tab, the following fields are displayed:
Employer's PAYE Registration Number: Number provided by Revenue to your
organisation.
Tax Advisor Identification Number: Field available to enter the TAIN reference if
Dayforce, Inc. is acting as your organisation's tax adviser
PRSI Class: Field for the employer PRSI class.
Arrestment Admin Fee: Field for an administrative fee for attachment of earnings
orders, if applicable.
Registered for EWSS: (Ireland Only) Checkbox to indicate whether the legal entity can
claim the Employee Wage Subsidy Scheme (EWSS).
ROS Certificate: Section containing the following fields:
Current certificate: Displays the current ROS digital certificate.
Remove: Button to remove the contents of the Current certificate field.
Expiry Date: Field for the expiry date of the current certificate.
Certificate: Field that works in conjunction with the Select File button to select a
ROS digital certificate.
Select File: Button that opens a File Upload dialog box in which you can locate and
select your ROS digital certificate if entering it for the first time or are changing digital
certificates.
Password: Password that corresponds with your ROS digital certificate.
Save Certificate: Button to save the newly added certificate.

-- 369 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 370 of 0
The Taxation Parameters Tab
For legal entities in Australia, Canada, Mauritius, the United Kingdom, and the United States, the
Taxation Parameters tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has country-specific
taxation parameters that you can configure for the legal entity.
For legal entities in the Republic of Ireland, the Revenue Parameters tab is shown instead of the
Taxation Parameters tab. See The Revenue Parameters Tab.
By selecting a country in the Country Code drop-down list of the Address tab, the country code
determines the options that are available in the Taxation Parameters tab. The following table
describes the settings for each country.
Taxation Parameters tab options by country
Country Code 	Fields shown in the Taxation Parameters tab
Australia
PAYG Employer Reference Number: The legal entity's
PAYG withholding tax reference number. When set up, it’s
used for third-party payment to payees in Australia with
the category of Australian Taxation Office.
Nominated Default Superannuation Scheme: This field
only shows for Australian third-party payees with the
"Default superannuation scheme" payee category. The
drop-down list shows the name in the following format:
{USI} - Name of super fund.
Note: You can refer to the employee's profile in the Payroll
> Superannuation screen in People, in the Fund Name
field for the naming format.
You can search by USI or the fund name.
Canada Apply Status Indian Calculations to Legal Entity's Employees
checkbox. See Taxation Parameters for Canada.
Mauritius
Tax Calculation Parameters
Category of Employer
NPF Tax Authority
SME Category
PRGF Effective Start Date
General
Employer Registration Number

-- 370 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 371 of 0
Employer Business Registration Number
Employer Name
Telephone Number
Mobile Number
Name of Declarant
Email Address
SOE
SOE Name of Declarant
Capacity in which acting
Additional information about these fields is available in Mauritius Legal Entity
Taxation Parameters Settings.
United
Kingdom
HMRC Office Number
PAYE Employer Reference Number
Employer Reference Number (ERN)
Employer Account Office
Corporation Tax Reference
In the BACS export file, Dayforce uses four extra characters after the 13-
character Account Office reference to show the year and the month or quarter
your HMRC payment is for. This 17-character Account Office reference is
included automatically, and ensures that payments are correctly allocated when
you make early or late payments outside of the current period.
United
States of
America
Territorial Filer: Indicates that a US legal entity is incorporated in the
specified territory and isn’t required to file the standard federal Form 941 to
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for this federal employment identification
number (FEIN). Rather, a federal territorial Form 941-PR (Puerto Rico) or
Form 941-SS (American Samoa, Guam, Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands) should be filed for this FEIN. You
can select from the following options: American Samoa, Guam, Northern
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
This drop-down list is only available for a new legal entity, and after the
legal entity commits a payroll in Dayforce, you can't change your selection
in this drop-down list.
Note: Dayforce assigns territory-specific Dayforce Tax Service (DTS) codes
for Medicare and Social Security taxes and prompts DTS to file the correct
Form 941 with the appropriate tax authorities. During payroll commit,

-- 371 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 372 of 0
Dayforce validates that all employee work and residential addresses that are
associated with the legal entity match the selected territory.
Pennsylvania Employers Only: Allow PA Local Resident Withholding for Employees
Working Outside of PA: Withholds Local Withholding amounts, based on employee's
resident location, for PA Residents (outside of Philadelphia).
Pennsylvania Local Services Tax: Withhold on Primary Work Assignment Only:
Withholds PA Local Services Tax (LST) only on primary work assignments with PA LST
wages. By default, this checkbox isn’t selected.
When the checkbox isn’t selected, the PA LST on secondary work assignments or
projects, and the primary work assignments that are subject to PA LST, are withheld.
Employees can submit an exemption request to their employer to exclude a specific
PA LST. The exemption request applies only for jurisdictions that show in the
employee’s HR record in People, in the Payroll > Tax Definitions screen in the
Employee Payroll Tax section.
Puerto Rico Tax Form Confirmation Numbers: Section with Add, Copy, and Delete
buttons. If any entries exist, the following columns are shown:
Year
Confirmation Number
Taxation Parameters for Canada
This section describes how to configure taxation parameters for legal entities in the Taxation
Parameters tab of Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
Configure Canadian Status Indian Taxation
If the legal entity employs Status Indian employees that work in a location that meets the
government definition of a reserve, you can configure how the application applies Status Indian
exemptions.
Note: If a payroll administrator records tax amounts for a Status Indian employee in the
Adjustments, Checks, or Quick Entry tabs, the application applies the tax amount regardless of
the configuration.
To configure Status Indian taxation parameters:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity and select a legal entity.
2. Click the Taxation Parameters tab.
3. Select the Apply Status Indian Calculations to Legal Entity’s Employees checkbox.
4. In the Calculate CPP For Status Indians drop-down list, select one of the following options:
Calculate CPP to include CPP/QPP totals in the employee’s tax calculations.
No CPP to exclude CPP/QPP totals in the employee's tax calculations.
5. Click Save.

-- 372 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 373 of 0
You must also add the Status Indian exemption to the applicable employee records in People.
See Configure Canadian Status Indian Exemptions.
The STP Parameters Tab
Important: The Australian Taxation Office (ATO) requires that if a legal entity is considered as a
related entity to other entities with different Australian Business Numbers (ABNs), and the legal
entity needs to submit Single Touch Payroll (STP) data for other entities in the group, the related
entity must get a business authority to lodge STP on their behalf.
This authorisation is needed before the initial STP submission. For detailed instructions or more
information, contact the ATO or visit their website at: https://www.ato.gov.au/Business/Single-
Touch-Payroll/Start-reporting/STP-checklists/.
Australian payroll processing works with STP to simplify business payroll reporting obligations to
the ATO. General information about STP is available in Overview of Australian Payroll.
STP parameters are configured for legal entities in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity,
in the STP Parameters tab. The following table contains information about each of these options to
set up the reporting of payroll activity to the Australian Tax Office (ATO).
STP Parameters tab options
Field 	Description
Software Subscription ID
A unique ID provided by Dayforce to the customer. This
number is used as part of the authentication process for
the submitted payroll file. All child legal entities with a
parent uses the Software Subscription ID (SSID) of the
parent. SSID is important to perform authentication
linking between entities’ ABN with the right SSID. The
linking can be done through the business’ Access
Manager according to ATO’s STP checklist. Required
field.
Previous BMS Identifier
A unique number to identify your employees’ previous
Payroll ID in an update event for the reporting of payroll
information to the ATO using STP.
Note: This update event functionality isn’t developed yet
and will be available in a future release. Currently, it’s
just a static field.
Branch ID
A unique 3-digit branch ID to identify the legal entity for
the STP parameter. Defaults to 1 if no branch ID is
entered. Required field.

-- 373 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 374 of 0
Note: (Australia only) Organizations in Australia can decide in to create a new
Australian legal entity with the same ABN number but with a different branch
number in Org Set-up > Org Payroll Set-up > Legal Entity in the
Federal/Business ID number field, and in this Branch ID field, respectively.
To opt in to create an Australian legal entity with a duplicate ABN but with a
different branch number, the Allow duplicate ABN (Australia only – restricted)
client property in System Admin > Client Properties must be selected. You
must understand ATO’s STP reporting requirements with the same ABN but
different branch numbers before enabling this option. Also, when you create a
new legal entity with the same Federal/Business ID number but a different
Branch ID with an existing one, a unique Name is required. Otherwise, if the
legal entity name already exists, an error is shown.
Payer Reporting Information
Payer
Contact
Name
Name of the person who is used as a contact for your organisation. Required
field.
Payer Email
Address
Email address for the contact person. This email acknowledges receipt of the
payroll file, certain processing equities, and general correspondence. Required
field.
Payer
Business
Telephone
Number
Telephone number for the contact person. Required field.
Payroll Is Run By
Use Default
Parent Legal
Entity
Select this option to assign the entity to an existing default parent legal entity.
When an organization has multiple legal entities, this setting allows this legal
entity to be at the top of the hierarchy in the STP file to allow for proper
reporting.
Use Another
Parent Legal
Entity
Use this option when there’s a business requirement to have multiple parent
entities in the same environment. Assign the entity to a nondefault parent entity
in the Select an option drop-down list.
Use Information Provided

-- 374 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 375 of 0
Important: If the current entity is a parent/business intermediary
for other legal entities, don’t select this option. Instead, select the
Business Intermediary / Registered Agent option and provide
relevant information.
Business Intermediary /
Registered Agent
Sets up a legal entity whose payroll is run by an authorised
business intermediary or being a parent/business intermediary
for other legal entities. If selected, provide applicable details in
the Intermediary / Registered Agent ABN, Intermediary /
Registered Agent Contact Name, Intermediary / Registered
Agent Contact Email Address and Intermediary / Registered
Agent Business Telephone Number fields.
Use this as Default Parent
Legal Information.
Select this checkbox to indicate that the current legal entity is
used as a default parent for all related child legal entities, which
have selected the Use Default Parent Legal Entity option. This
means all information provided under the Business Intermediary /
Registered Agent related fields of the current entity are used to
lodge STP submissions on behalf of associated child entities.
Intermediary / Registered
Agent ABN
(Applicable for both managed payroll and SaaS customers)
Australian Business Number (ABN) for an entity that is authorized
to make statements on behalf of another entity.
Registered Agent Number
(Applicable for both managed payroll and SaaS customers)
Registered Agent Number that is issued by the Tax Practitioners
Board (TPB) and is associated with the Intermediary ABN.
Enter information in this field when the payroll event data is
supplied by a registered agent. Valid characters are 0–9. The
maximum length is 8 characters.
Intermediary/Registered
Agent Contact Name
(Applicable for both managed payroll and SaaS customers)
Name of the authorized contact person for the Business
Intermediary or the Registered agent.
Intermediary /Registered
Email Address
(Applicable for both managed payroll and SaaS customers) Email
address of the authorised contact person for the Business
Intermediary or the registered agent. This email is used to
acknowledge receipt of the payroll file, certain processing
inquiries, and general correspondence. Enter information in this
field when the payroll event data is supplied by a registered
agent.

-- 375 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 376 of 0
Intermediary/Registered Agent
Business Telephone Number
(Applicable for both managed payroll and SaaS
customers) Telephone number for the contact person for
the business intermediary or the registered agent. This
field is required when the payroll event data is supplied by
a registered agent.
Additional settings
Use alternative
intermediary/registered agent
contact info
This checkbox is selected by default to set up STP
reporting of a child’s legal entity information with alternative
contact information.
Alternative
intermediary/registered agent
contact name
The name of the alternative authorized contact person for
the business intermediary or the registered agent.
Alternative
intermediary/registered agent
email address
The email address of the alternative authorised contact
person for the business intermediary or the registered
agent.
Alternative
intermediary/registered agent
business telephone number
The telephone number of the alternative authorised
contact person for the business intermediary or the
registered agent.
The New Hire Reporting Tab
This topic describes the options in the New Hire Reporting tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup
for US legal entities. General information about new hire reporting is available in Overview of New
Hire Reporting.
Before You Begin: This topic applies to US legal entities only.
In Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, you can select a US legal entity and then set
overrides for new hire reporting for that legal entity in the New Hire Reporting tab.
New Hire Reporting tab options
Option 	Description
Registered with HHS as a Multistate
Employer
Flags the legal entity as registered with HHS as a multi-
state employer and activates the Designated State for
Reporting drop-down list.
Designated State for Reporting
Sets which state, from those in which the legal entity
has employees, will be used as the state for reporting
all employees. Active only if the Registered with HHS
as a Multistate Employer checkbox is selected.
Suppress New Hire Reporting Excludes all employees and future new hires of the
legal entity from the new hire export file.

-- 376 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 377 of 0
Override
Employer
Address
Sets the override address for the employer to use when reporting new hires
in the report for the legal entity. The options available are those you set up in
System Admin > Client Properties, in the Addresses tab. Activates the option
to set the address type for the employer override.
Override
Employer
Address Type
Sets the address type for the override you selected. Options are H -
Headquarters Address or P - Payroll Address. Activates the option to set the
contact for the employer override.
Override
Employer
Contact
Sets the contact name for the override you selected. The options available
are those you set up in System Admin > Client Properties in the Contacts tab.
Overview of New Hire Reporting
New Hire Reporting is configured in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity in the New Hire
Reporting tab.
Before You Begin: This topic applies to US legal entities only.
Role feature access: Org Setup > Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity > New Hire
Reporting
When US employers hire new employees, or rehire previous employees, federal law requires the
employers to report basic information on the new or rehired employees to the state in which the
employees work within 20 days of their hire or rehire date. Some states require employers to report
new hire and rehire information sooner.
After new hire reporting information is sent to states, the states forward the information to the
National Directory of New Hires, which child support agencies use to locate parents who owe
child support and issue income withholding orders. The National Directory of New Hires is
maintained by the Office of the Administration for Children and Families, which is part of the US
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
General Process for New Hire Reporting
Dayforce supports the reporting of new hires with the Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS). The following is a summary of this process in Dayforce:
When you commit a pay run, Dayforce automatically runs the Payroll New Hire Export
background job to generate a file based on specifications configured by the Dayforce back
office.
After the file is generated, Dayforce Back Office transmits it to the various state agencies, or
to the single designated state if you are registered as a multistate employer.

-- 377 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 378 of 0
This process of generating the report is automatic and doesn't require user action. However, you
can override certain details about the file for specific legal entities. To override the file, you can
configure the following settings in the New Hire Reporting tab under Org Setup > Org Payroll
Setup > Legal Entity:
Override Employer Address
Override Employer Address Type
Override Employer Contact
Suppress New Hire Reporting
Multistate Employer Reporting
By default, new hire reports are sent to each state in which your newly hired or rehired employees
work. You can, however, configure your instance of Dayforce for multistate reporting, which
requires you to register with HHS as a multistate employer. For general information and details
about requirements for registering as a multistate employer, see the site
https://www.acf.hhs.gov/css/employers/employer-responsibilities/new-hire-reporting.
Registering as a multistate employer and configuring Dayforce so you can report new hires as a
multistate employer minimizes the number of times employees must be reported as new hires,
which is helpful in cases where they are later hired, or rehired in a different state by the same legal
entity.
When you configure Dayforce for multistate employer new hire reporting, you must add an
employer contact, or the report fails. the name of an employer contact, as well as a single
employer address and address type for the contact. This establishes a single contact for new hire
reporting, as well as a central location where any garnishment paperwork can be sent, instead of
each different state location where employees are hired. Instructions for configuring a legal entity
as a multistate employer are available in Configure New Hire Reporting for a Multistate Employer.
Configure New Hire Reporting for a Multistate Employer
When you configure Dayforce for multistate employer new hire reporting, you must add an
employer contact, or the report fails. the name of an employer contact, as well as a single
employer address and address type for the contact.
Important: This topic applies to US legal entities only.
Before You Begin: Make sure you are familiar with the general concepts and requirements for new
hire reporting in Overview of New Hire Reporting and The New Hire Reporting Tab.
To configure a US legal entity as a multistate employer for new hire reporting:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.

-- 378 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 379 of 0
2. Select the US legal entity that you want to update and click the New Hire Reporting tab.
3. Select the Registered with HHS as a Multistate Employer checkbox.
4. Set the following options:
a. Select a state in the Designated State for Reporting drop-down list.
b. Select an address in the Override Employer Address drop-down list.
c. Select the address type in the Override Employer Address Type drop-down list.
d. Select a contact name in the Override Employer Contact drop-down list.
5. Click Save.
The Payroll Parameters Tab
The Payroll Parameters tab is shown only for Singapore organizations in Org Setup > Org Payroll
Setup > Legal Entity. Use this tab to enter the organization's tax information and provide accurate
payroll reporting to the Singapore tax authorities and other government agencies.
Note: If you logged in with the English (United Kingdom) culture setting, the Legal Entity tab is
called Organisation.
Dayforce determines where an organization is legally based by the country selected in the
Operating Country drop-down list.
Payroll Parameters tab fields
Label 	Description
Authorized Signatory
Name
The name of the authorized payroll signatory in the organization. This
name appears in the reports.
Authorized Signatory
Designation
The position in the organization held by the authorized payroll
signatory. This name appears in the reports.
ID Number of
Authorized Signatory
The National Registration Identity Card (NRIC) number of the
authorized payroll signatory.
Business Phone 	The business phone number of the authorized payroll signatory.
Mobile 	The mobile phone number of the authorized payroll signatory.
Email Address 	The email address of the authorized payroll signatory.
Organizational ID Type
The tax identification type that your organization uses. This type
needs to match the ID number entered in Federal/Business ID
Number in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
ASGD Number The tax reference number assigned by the Inland Revenue Authority
of Singapore.
CSN (CPF Submission
Number)
The CPF submission number used to make employee CPF payments
or other related requests. See CPF Submission Number.
VCSN (Voluntary CPF
Submission Number) The voluntary CPF submission number.

-- 379 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 380 of 0
CPF Sector 	The company sector under which your organization operates.
AW Projection 	This function isn’t supported.
CPF File Format 	This function isn’t supported.
YE CPF File Submission 	This function is not supported.
CPF Line Contribution
Amount Limit Per File
The maximum number of lines supported in each CPF
submission file. This function isn’t supported.
Legal Entity Start Date The date of incorporation used for Equity Remuneration
Incentive Scheme (ERIS) start-ups in the Appendix 8B form.
Configure Basic Legal Entity Entries
Before You Begin: Ensure that you are familiar with the general concepts about legal entities, as
well as the contents and controls in the user interface. See Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
To configure a legal entity entry:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
If you logged in with the English (United Kingdom) culture setting, the Legal Entity tab is
called Organisation.
2. Click Add.
3. In the Name field, enter the legal entity's name.
4. (Optional) In the Description field, enter a description of the legal entity.
5. In the Operating Country drop-down list, select the country of the legal entity.
6. In the Federal/Business Id Number field, enter the FEIN for a US legal entity, or the BN for a
Canadian legal entities. The field is required for legal entities in US, Canada, UK, Ireland,
Mauritius, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.
7. Ensure the Active checkbox is selected.
8. In the Effective Start field, enter or select the effective start date of the legal entity.
9. (Optional) In the Effective End field, enter or select the end date of the legal entity.
10. In the Reference Code field, enter an XREF code for the legal entity.
11. (Optional) Select the No Back Office checkbox to prevent Dayforce from filing with Dayforce
Back Office for this legal entity.
12. (Optional) In the Legal Entity Status drop-down list, select an option to include or exclude
the legal entity from annual and quarterly reporting.
13. In the Process for Employment drop-down list, select a payroll type (regular, contractor, or
pensioner).
14. (Optional) In the Earning Statement Logo drop-down list, select a company logo to appear
on an earning statement or payslip for a legal entity level. For the legal entity logo to appear,

-- 380 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 381 of 0
the logo must already be added in the Images tab in Site Setup > Client, as an ESS Earning
Statement Legal Entity option in the Image Type drop-down list.
15. Click Save to save the entry.
16. Click Refresh to reload the list if the entry does not appear in it.
After you have saved the legal entity entry, you can configure its particulars.
Configure Legal Entities
Before You Begin: Ensure that you have completed the steps in Configure Basic Legal Entity
Entries. You can also consult Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
To configure a legal entity after you created it:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
If you logged in with the English (United Kingdom) culture setting, the Legal Entity tab is
called Organisation.
2. Select the legal entity that you want to configure.
3. Click Add.
4. Enter a name and description of the legal entity.
5. In the Operating Country drop-down list, select the legal entity's country.
6. In the Federal/Business Id Number field, enter the FEIN for a US legal entity, or the BN for a
Canadian legal entities; the field is optional for UK legal entities.
7. Ensure the Active checkbox is selected.
8. Click the calendar icon next to Effective Start and select the effective start date of the legal
entity from the calendar. The legal entity can only be used in Dayforce during its effective
date range, as defined with the Effective Start and Effective End fields.
9. (Optional) Select an effective end date for the legal entity in the Effective End field.
10. (Optional) Enter a cross-reference code for the legal entity in the Reference Code field.
Cross-reference codes are used to export data from Dayforce to other applications.
11. (Optional) Select the No Back Office checkbox to prevent Dayforce from filing with
Dayforce's back office for this legal entity.
12. If necessary, define that the legal entity should be excluded from annual and quarterly
reporting by selecting Implementation or Lost no Tax Forms or Filing Required options in the
Legal Entity Status drop-down list.
13. If the legal entity is going to be used to pay contractors or pensioners, select an option in
the Process for Employment drop-down list. Dayforce populates the drop-down list with no
selection for preexisting legal entities, and treats a blank selection as regular payroll.
14. Click Save.
15. Next, you need to define the entity's address:
15. Click the Address tab.
16. A legal entity's address is kept in Dayforce for informational purposes; this information is the
employer's legal address, typically used on tax forms, but it does not influence what taxes

-- 381 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 382 of 0
are applied to employees. For that determination, Dayforce uses the addresses of the sites
employees work at, specified in Org Setup, as well as US employees' addresses specified
on their employee records in People.
19. Because a single legal entity might operate in multiple states or provinces, and as a result
need to subtract different taxes for employees working in each, the taxes that employees
pay aren’t based on the legal entity's address.
16. Enter the address of the legal entity and zip or postal code.
17. Select the country of the legal entity's address in the Country Code drop-down list.
18. Note: You can define an address that is outside of a legal entity's operating country,
meaning an American legal entity can have an address in Canada, and a Canadian legal
entity can have an address in the United States.
18. Select the state or province of the legal address in the State/Province drop-down list.
19. Click and select the city.
20. Dayforce displays cities in the Select City drop-down list that have already been configured
in System Admin > Geo Locations. You can also create new cities by selecting the Create
new city option. Enter the name of the city in the Create New City field and then click OK.
20. If necessary, specify the county of the entity's legal address.
21. Click Save.
Next, you need to define the entity's taxation parameters:
22. Select the Taxation Parameters tab, if available.
For Canadian legal entities, select the Apply Status Indian Calculations to Legal
Entity's Employees to apply the correct calculations to employees identified as Status
Indians. If selected, choose an option in the Calculate CPP For Status Indians drop-
down list.
For US legal entities, you can add Puerto Rico tax form confirmation numbers or
assign territorial-filing status. If you are a Pennsylvania employer, 