lable:
Most Recent Hire Date
Original Hire Date
First Date Worked
Seniority Date
Onboarding Date
If you select an option for which an employee has no value, Dayforce uses the employee's most
recent hire date to calculate an employee's length of service.
Allow Base Rate Entries Below Minimum Wage for RESTful
Select this checkbox to allow users to enter base rate values that fall below the accepted
minimum wage in an employee’s employment status record. This can be helpful in cases where an
employee’s salary counts for only a portion of their total compensation. When the Allow Base Rate
Entries Below Minimum Wage for RESTful client property is selected, Dayforce Web Services calls
ApplyEmployeeRateGreaterThanMinimumWageRule with isWarning = TRUE when
submitting POST or PATCH updates to an employee’s BaseRate value using the RESTful API.
Prevent Employee Termination if Future Timesheet Entries Exist
Controls whether you can terminate or inactivate employees who have future-dated timesheet
entries. The options are:

-- 154 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 155 of 0
Off: The property is not enabled. You can terminate or inactivate employees even if they
have timesheet entries or worked time logged for a future date. This option is selected by
default.
All entries: You can’t terminate or inactivate employees if they have either future time entries
or future worked time saved. Dayforce returns an error message and prevents you from
completing the termination or inactivation process.
Worked time only: You can’t terminate or inactivate employees if they have future worked
time saved. However, if they have future time entries that haven’t been worked, you can
terminate or inactivate them. Dayforce returns an error message and prevents you from
completing the termination or inactivation process only if the employee has future worked
time logged.
To use this client property on custom employee termination or leave of absence forms, you must
add the following rules to the form:
Termination forms: <ValidationRule
Type="EmployeeTerminationFutureWorksheetsValidationRule"
Event="OnSubmit" />
Leave of absence forms: <ValidationRule
Type="EmployeeLeaveOfAbsenceFutureWorksheetsValidationRule"
Event="OnSubmit" />
See Use a Named Rule in the XML Forms Guide.
Enable String Sanitizing for Employee Name and Addresses
Select one of the following options to configure Dayforce to check employee names and
addresses for invalid characters in RESTful API requests and HR Import jobs:
Off: This is the default setting. No validation is done on requests or HR Import for invalid
characters.
Warning: Shows a warning message when a request or HR Import job contains invalid
characters, but continues processing the request or job.
Error: Shows an error message when a request or HR Import job contains invalid characters
and stops the request or import from proceeding.
These messages are shown in the HR Import background job log or in the response to the
RESTful request.
Timesheet
In System Admin > Client Properties in the Properties tab, the settings in the Timesheet section
control how Dayforce shows information in timesheets.

-- 155 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 156 of 0
Display Job Assignments
Controls whether Dayforce shows job assignments on the timesheet. When cleared, Dayforce
doesn’t show what job assignment employees worked during a shift and users can't change what
job assignment employees worked during their shifts.
Display Pay Codes
Controls whether Dayforce shows pay code information on the timesheet. When cleared, users
can’t specify pay codes during worked shifts.
Auto load
Controls whether Dayforce automatically loads the current timesheet without waiting for users to
select a week and then click Load.
Note: Users can override this client property in Time Review by enabling or disabling the Autoload
on Start option in the Options dialog box in Time Review.
Show Problem Pane On Load
Controls whether Dayforce loads the Problems panel in Work > Timesheet automatically when
there is at least one problem in the user’s timesheet. When this checkbox is cleared, users must
open the Problems panel themselves to review problems in the timesheet.
Note: Users can override this client property by selecting or clearing the Show problem pane after
timesheet is loaded checkbox in the Options dialog box in Work > Timesheet.
Show user controls on forms
Controls whether Dayforce shows the OK and Cancel buttons in the shift detail dialog boxes in
Timesheets. When selected, the buttons are shown and you must click either OK or Cancel to
close the dialog box. When cleared, the buttons aren’t shown and you must click the X in the top
right corner, or click outside of the dialog box to close it.
Level of view detail
Select the level of the detail Dayforce shows on the timesheet. Select one of the following:
Shift Time: Shift start and end times are shown.
Shift and meal times: Shift and meal start and end times are shown.
Schedule vs actual stacked: The highest level of detail, for each shift the schedule
compares the employee’s schedule, including meals, to the times the employee actually
worked, based on clock entries or time entries.
Filter Expanded

-- 156 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 157 of 0
Controls whether Dayforce shows the filter options in the timesheet expanded, by default. When
selected, Dayforce shows the expanded filter options on the timesheet when users click Filter.
When cleared, Dayforce shows a reduced set filter options on the timesheet when users click
Filter. Users can still expand the search options by clicking Expand.
Display pay class rank sort
Controls whether users have the option to sort the timesheet by pay class rank.
Default Shift Start
The default time that shifts recorded through the timesheet start.
Default Shift End
The default time that shifts recorded through the timesheet end.
Hide time totals
Controls whether to exclude certain pay types (for example, Salaried) from the total hours in the
timesheet.
Secondary Employee Display
Controls the display of employee attributes in Timesheets. The attributes selected are shown
below the employee name in Timesheets.
Note: If you assign the shift rotation secondary employee display, the Shift Rotations role feature
must also be assigned for users to view the display in Timesheets.
Primary Sort Type Name, Secondary Sort Type Name, Tertiary Sort Type Name
These three drop-down lists define the order that Dayforce uses to show employee timesheets in
Timesheets. The option selected in the Primary Sort Type Name drop-down list defines how
timesheets are sorted first, the Secondary Sort Type Name and Tertiary Sort Type Name are used
for successive sorts. You can sort timesheets by department name, employee name, employee
number, job rank, pay class rank, and primary location.
Job ranks are assigned to the jobs configured in Dayforce. See Jobs and Job Assignments
Configuration. If you sort timesheets by job rank, Dayforce shows employees with the highest job
rank at the top of the list in Timesheets.
Similarly, pay class ranks reference each pay class’s sort order. See Create Pay Classes in the
HR Administration Guide.
Primary Sort Direction, Secondary Sort Direction, Tertiary Sort Direction

-- 157 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 158 of 0
Select whether the corresponding sort order is ascending or descending.
Pay Summary Report Show Hours in Full Precision
Controls the number of decimal places Dayforce uses when producing the Pay Summary Report.
Select the checkbox and Dayforce doesn’t round the hours on the report.
Pay Detail Report Show Hours in Full Precision
Controls the number of decimal places Dayforce uses when producing the Pay Detail Report.
Select the checkbox and Dayforce doesn’t round the hours on the report.
Employee Pay Summary Report Show Hours in Full Precision
Controls the number of decimal places Dayforce uses when producing the Employee Pay
Summary Report. Select the checkbox and Dayforce doesn’t round the hours on the report.
Enable Mass Editing
Controls whether Dayforce allows users to edit time entries in bulk in Timesheets. When selected,
Dayforce shows the Add New Time Entry option in the drop-down list when users select more than
one cell.
Note: Dayforce doesn’t show this option when the Enable Mass Editing checkbox is cleared.
Department Hours Report Show Hours in Full Precision
Controls the number of decimal places Dayforce uses when producing the Department Hours
Report. Select the checkbox and Dayforce doesn’t round the hours on the report.
Load by Pay Group
Controls whether Employee Timesheet and Timesheets are loaded by calendar week or pay
period. Select Load by Pay Group in the drop-down list and Dayforce loads timesheets by pay
period. This selection also enables the Pay Group drop-down list in Employee Timesheet and
Timesheets.
Note: This option must be selected if you want to use the Timesheets > Search By Employee role
feature for timesheets. When the Load by Pay Group client property is enabled, the mobile app
doesn’t apply timesheet data validation logic. If you disable this property, the app applies the
logic. For more information about this role feature, see Timesheets.
Show all orgs for employee
Controls whether users can add transfers for an employee who works at their locations, to any
other locations at which the employee is eligible to work. With the checkbox selected, users can
create and edit shifts and transfers for other locations. Clear the checkbox and users can create

-- 158 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 159 of 0
shifts only for locations they have been assigned security access to, and can’t create shifts for
transfers for the other locations at which their employees work.
Show Projects in Hierarchical View
With this checkbox selected, Dayforce includes the Show Projects in Hierarchical View option in
timesheet features when you click Options. This setting controls how Dayforce populates projects
in the Project field when users add shifts and pay adjustments. When the Show Projects in
Hierarchical View checkbox is selected, the Project field in grid and duration timesheets contains
a project icon ( ) that users can click to open a project dialog box. In this dialog box, users can
search for projects and view each project they have access to. Dayforce shows projects in a
hierarchical format, with parent projects shown at the top level. You can click a parent project to
expand it and view its child projects, when available:
Note: If your organization has a large number of projects configured, Dayforce might not load all
projects by default. In this scenario, use the search field to locate your projects.
Additionally, when the hierarchical view is enabled, Dayforce shows both the parent and child
project selections in the Project field after a child project is selected. In the following screenshot,
the user selected the Planning project, which is a child project of the Renovations parent project:

-- 159 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 160 of 0
Display rounding informational message
Controls whether Dayforce shows an informational message in Timesheets in the Pay panel that
indicates how decimal values are rounded. The message indicates that the Display Time Decimal
Precision client property controls decimal rounding functionality in Dayforce. This client property is
located in System Admin > Client Properties in the Properties tab, in the General section. See
General.
Dayforce shows the informational message only when the following conditions are met:
The Display rounding informational message checkbox is selected.
The Display Time Decimal Precision client property is set to either 1 (##.#), 2 (##.##), or 3
(##.###).
Prompt to add shift to schedule
Controls whether Dayforce prompts users for a confirmation when they add a shift to a scheduled,
unworked shift in Timesheets. Recording shifts to scheduled, unworked shifts impacts pay. By
prompting users to confirm, Dayforce can help to ensure this action is only performed when
appropriate. Select Always, and Dayforce shows a prompt. Select Never and Dayforce doesn’t
show a prompt.
Prompt to add unmatched shift
Controls whether Dayforce prompts users for a confirmation when they add a worked shift to a
day with an unworked, scheduled shift, but select to not add the worked shift to the unworked,
scheduled shift. Recording worked shifts that don’t match scheduled, unworked shifts on the
same day can impact the employee’s attendance records and can also impact pay, depending on
how Dayforce is configured. By prompting users to confirm, Dayforce can help to ensure this
action is performed only when appropriate. Select Always, and Dayforce shows a prompt. Select
Never and Dayforce doesn’t show a prompt.
Prompt to delete
Controls whether Dayforce prompts users for a confirmation when they delete a worked shift.
Deleting shifts impacts the employee’s time and attendance records and their pay. By prompting

-- 160 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 161 of 0
users to confirm, Dayforce can help to ensure this action is only performed when appropriate.
Select Always, and Dayforce shows a prompt. Select Never and Dayforce doesn’t show a prompt.
Use strict manager effective dating
Controls whether managers can modify timesheets before their effective start date as manager at
the location or for an employee. Select the checkbox and managers can’t edit timesheets for a
locations or employees before their effective start date. Clear the checkbox and managers can
edit timesheets for their location or employees for time that came before their effective start date.
For example, an employee is assigned a new manager, effective August 30. The employee
creates three shifts for their location: August 25, August 29, and August 31. The new manager
reviews the time for the employee for the week of August 25. With Use strict manager effective
dating cleared, the new manager can authorize all three shifts. With Use strict manager effective
dating selected, the new manager can only authorize the shift for August 31.
Load Timesheet Editor by Employees
Controls the ability in Timesheets in the load panel for users to filter only the employees that they
want to be shown in a timesheet, before it’s initially loaded. This feature is useful when loading a
timesheet that includes a large number of employees (for example, 2,000 employees), and is
available for timesheets loaded by pay period or calendar week.
When the Load Timesheet Editor by Employees checkbox is selected, the Employees drop-down
list in the load panel is available to select employees. After you specify one or more locations to
load, you must also select specific employees in the Employees drop-down list to load.
When the Load Timesheet Editor by Employees checkbox isn’t selected, Dayforce loads
timesheets in Timesheets using the original method (that is, loading all employees outright), and
the Employees drop-down list is unavailable in the load panel.
Note: This feature is similar to the functionality that’s controlled by the Timesheets > Search
By Employee role feature. As an exception to the similarity, when the Search By Employee role
feature is enabled, you don’t have to select a location before you can access the Employees
drop-down list in the load panel. See Timesheets.
People role security restricts timesheet (former My HR role security restricts timesheet)
Select this checkbox to apply the role visibility configured in HR Admin > People Role Security to
Timesheets, to prevent users from editing another user’s timesheet, based on user role. For
example, the HR role security defined for Assistant Store Managers prevents them from being
able to view Store Managers’ employee records. With this checkbox selected, the Assistant Store
Manager can’t edit the Store Manager’s timesheet.
Note: Role security won’t restrict a user’s ability to edit their own timesheet, regardless of
configuration.

-- 161 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 162 of 0
Consolidate employee pay transactions to new pay group effective start
By default, Dayforce doesn’t consolidate employee pay summaries when employees are assigned
a new pay group mid-pay period. When this field contains a date, Dayforce consolidates
employee pay summaries for pay periods that start on or after the date entered, provided that
both pay groups are configured with the same frequency and have the same pay calendars.
For example, Pay Group A and Pay Group B both have a biweekly frequency and have the same
pay calendars, while Pay Group C is configured with a semi-monthly frequency. If an employee is
moved from Pay Group A to Pay Group B mid-pay period, Dayforce consolidates the employee’s
pay summaries. Conversely, if the employee is moved from Pay Group A to Pay Group C,
Dayforce doesn’t consolidate the pay summaries, because the pay groups don’t share the same
frequency.
Use auto complete for dockets
By default, Dayforce loads all of the dockets an employee has access to, which can take longer
than expected for customers with a large number of dockets configured. With the Use auto
complete for dockets checkbox selected, Dayforce shows a docket control that doesn’t auto-load
all dockets. Instead, it shows an empty docket drop-down list, and prompts users to start typing.
As the user types, Dayforce shows up to ten dockets that match what they have entered.
Round Timesheet Calculations
When this field contains a date, Dayforce rounds timesheet calculations to two decimal places
starting on or after the date entered. Rounding the calculations ensures that the values shown on
the timesheet match the values shown in the pay summary. To avoid retros, any calculations made
prior to the specified date aren’t affected by the client property.
Use auto complete for projects
By default, Dayforce loads all of the projects an employee has access to, which can take longer
than expected for customers with a large number of projects configured. With the Use auto
complete for projects checkbox selected, Dayforce shows a project control that doesn’t auto-load
all projects. Instead, it shows an empty project drop-down list, and prompts users to start typing.
As the user types, Dayforce shows up to ten projects that match what they entered.
Note: Unlike full-text searches, this control uses prefix-matching, which means that the search text
must exactly match the start of the project name. This means that if you type dev, Dayforce
searches only for projects that start with “dev.” It wouldn’t find projects with “dev” in the middle of
the project name.
When this client property is selected, Dayforce shows this control in the following features:
Timesheets

-- 162 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 163 of 0
Employee Timesheet
Manager Timesheet
Work > Timesheet
In Pay Setup > Multi-Approval in the Project Approval tab
In People in the Work > Default Labor screen
Do Not Persist Time Entry Problems On Save
Controls whether Dayforce saves the details for time entry problems that are detected when users
save their timesheets. When selected, Dayforce omits the problem details record, which can
improve performance for customers with a large number of employees in one location.
Problem Persistence
Controls how Dayforce processes time entry problems when they’re detected in timesheets. When
Background Job is selected in the drop-down list, the system queues the problem and processes
it when the Punch Post Processing background job runs. When Application is selected, the system
processes problems immediately in Dayforce without running the background job.
Use autocomplete for labor metric codes
By default, Dayforce loads all of the labor metrics an employee has access to, which can take
longer than expected for customers with a large number of configured metrics. When you select
the Use autocomplete for labor metric codes checkbox, Dayforce shows a dialog box that doesn’t
auto-load all labor metrics. Instead, it shows an empty drop-down list, and prompts you to start
typing. As you type, Dayforce shows up to ten user-defined labor metric codes that match what
you entered.
Include Overlapping Premium
Include pay premiums in the Employee Pay Summary Report, the Pay Summary Report, and the
Pay Category Hours Report. When the checkbox is selected, Dayforce includes overlapping
premiums in the reports. When the checkbox is cleared, these premiums are excluded.
Allow Manager to View Attendance Incidents Past Effective Date
Controls whether managers can view all past attendance incidents for the employees that they
currently manage, including incidents from before the manager’s effective start date and end
date. By default, this checkbox is cleared and managers can only view incidents that occurred
after their effective date. When the checkbox is selected, managers have access to all past
attendance management incidents for their employees. Managers can also view records beyond
the effective end date for employees that they previously managed.
Allow Manager to View Approval Requests Past Management Effective Date

-- 163 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 164 of 0
Controls whether managers can see all of their previous and current employees’ pending requests
from the past year by default in Approvals. When this checkbox is selected, you can access
requests for employees who report to you and for employees who reported to you in the past 15
days. Dayforce loads all of the pending requests from the past year for these employees,
however, only the requests for the past week are shown by default. To show all of the requests for
the past year, select the Show Past Due Requests checkbox in the Filter panel.
When this checkbox is cleared, you can only access and view the requests of the employees you
currently manage (that is, none of the employees that you previously managed).
Hide Comments
Controls whether employees and managers can enter comments in timesheets. When this
checkbox is selected, Dayforce hides the employee and manager comment fields in the dialog
boxes, duration timesheets, and clock entry timesheets of the following features:
Employee Timesheet
Manager Timesheet
Timesheets
Work > Calendar
Work > Shift Details
Work > Timesheet
While employees and managers can’t enter comments in these features when this checkbox is
selected, Dayforce still shows the employee comment and manager comment icons in Timesheets
for comments that were added before you enabled this client property. You can view these
comments in a tooltip by hovering the cursor over the icons.
When this checkbox is cleared, comment fields are available in these features.
Use Smart Locking For Data Saver
Controls how Dayforce processes and saves records when running the Pay Summary Recalc
background job. When this checkbox is selected and the job runs, Dayforce saves records for
multiple employees in bulk and locks access to the database for unaffected employee data. When
this checkbox is cleared and the job runs, Dayforce locks access to the database during saving
and processes one employee at a time, while preventing data for other employees from saving.
Enabling this functionality might improve the amount of time it takes Dayforce to run the job.
Apply Rounding in Pay Adjustment Import
Controls whether Dayforce applies rounding to time-based pay adjustments that were imported.
When this checkbox is selected, Dayforce persists rounded values for time-based pay

-- 164 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 165 of 0
adjustments that were added through the Employee Pay Adjustment Import.
When this checkbox is cleared, time-based pay adjustments that were added through the
Employee Pay Adjustment Import aren’t rounded.
This client property is disabled by default.
PSR Org Parallel Processing Mode
Select how Dayforce processes pay summary data when running the Pay Summary Recalc
background job. Depending on how Dayforce is configured, using an alternative calculation
process might improve the job’s performance when calculating affected sites and pay groups.
Important: This client property is effective only if you’ve configured the Pay Summary Recalc
background job to run as a multi-threaded task. This requires admin access and an advanced
understanding of the Dayforce database.
The following calculation methods are available:
Pre-Allocate: This option represents the existing calculation process and is selected by
default. The job assigns org units to a thread at the start of the job calculation. This
calculation process is also referred to as range partitioning.
Load Balance: The job processes and assigns org units to the next available thread. This
calculation process is also referred to as chunk partitioning.
Time and Attendance
In System Admin > Client Properties in the Properties tab, the settings in the Time and Attendance
section control how Dayforce processes time and attendance.
Use Tardy Rule
Controls whether the site uses tardy rule processing. When selected, tardy rules are enabled and
Dayforce provides additional controls on the timesheet to handle when employees clock in or
clock out either early or late. See Tardy Processing.
Cost Time Entries Against
Controls how Dayforce accounts for an employee’s wages and worked hours, including when
employees clock in at different locations from where they were scheduled. Select an option in the
Cost Time Entries Against drop-down list to determine where Dayforce charges an employee’s
worked time (that is, where the cost is allocated). The Cost Time Entries Against drop-down list
has the following options:
Scheduled or primary location: Cost is tied to the location where the employee was
scheduled, regardless of where they clocked in. This is the default setting.

-- 165 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 166 of 0
Clock location: Cost is tied to the location where the employee clocked in, regardless of
where they were scheduled. There’s no link to the schedule.
Clock location; Always link to schedule: Cost is tied to the location where the employee
clocked in and a link to the clock entry is added to the schedule.
Enable support for split pay by business day start time
You can use this client property to configure Dayforce to split pay by the business day start time.
When selected, Dayforce can be configured to split the pay for shifts that cross between two
business days for employees, based on their pay policy. For example, if the business day starts at
midnight, and an employee works from 10:00 PM on Monday to 5:00 AM on Tuesday, Dayforce
splits the pay for the shift so that the employee is paid for two hours on Monday and then five
hours on Tuesday.
When selected, Dayforce shows the Split Pay at Day Start Time checkbox in Pay Setup > Pay
Policy. When the Split Pay at Day Start Time checkbox is selected for a specific pay policy, the
pay for employees who are assigned the policy is split when it crosses two business days.
Enable support for job rate worked
Enables the Respect job rate worked and Allow lower job rate to override base rate checkboxes in
Pay Setup > Pay Policy.
By default, Dayforce pays employees at the higher of either their base rate in People, or the rate
for their primary work assignment. For example, if an employee’s base rate is $10, and the rate for
their primary work assignment is $9, Dayforce would pay the employee at their $10 rate. In cases
where an employee works a non-primary work assignment, they are paid at the higher of either
their usual rate or the rate for the work assignment they actually worked. Continuing the example
above, if the employee works a shift for a non-primary work assignment with a rate of $12,
Dayforce would pay them their $12 rate.
When the Allow lower job rate to override base rate checkbox is selected in Pay Setup > Pay
Policy, Dayforce ignores the employee’s base rate and pays the employee the higher of either the
rate for their primary work assignment or the rate for the work assignment they actually worked.
Continuing the example above, the employee would be paid their $9 rate by default, except for
time worked at their non-primary work assignment with the $12 rate.
When the Respect job rate worked checkbox is selected in Pay Setup > Pay Policy, Dayforce
ignores the employee’s primary work assignment rate and pays them at the higher of either their
base rate for the rate for the work assignment they actually worked. Continuing the example
above, the employee would be paid their $10 base rate for time worked at their primary work
assignment, and their $12 rate for their non-primary work assignment.
When both of these checkboxes are selected, Dayforce always pays the employee at the rate for
the work assignment they actually worked, regardless of their base rate or the rate for their

-- 166 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 167 of 0
primary work assignment.
Unpaired Threshold
Defines the maximum duration, in hours, an “in” clock entry can occur from the next “out” clock
entry and still be paired by Dayforce and considered a single shift. For example, enter 14 and
employees can clock in and out within 14 hours and Dayforce pairs the clock entries together as a
single worked shift. An employee could clock in at 8:00 AM and clock out any time before 10:00
PM (14 hours later) and Dayforce considers the time a single, worked shift.
This client property also defines when Dayforce marks recorded shifts on the timesheet with a
missing clock entry problem. After the unpaired threshold has passed from when an employee
clocks in, Dayforce marks the shift with the problem icon and states that the shift is missing an out
clock entry. The employee’s manager would then need to correct the problem by providing an end
time to the worked shift. Continuing the example, if the employee hadn’t clocked out by 10:00 PM,
beyond the unpaired clock entry threshold, Dayforce considers the shift to have no out clock entry
and marks it as a problem on the timesheet. The employee can’t record an out clock entry against
this shift.
This also defines the number of hours that must elapse before an employee can clock in again
after an unpaired in clock entry. Continuing the example above, if the employee clocked in again
within the 14 hour threshold set by this setting, Dayforce marks the second in clock entry as a
problem as well.
The Unpaired Threshold field should be set to a significantly large duration to cover any scenario
that might arise where employees work late.
It also defines the number of hours that a shift override lasts. A shift override is a supervisor
function that’s performed on a Dayforce clock. For example, this functionality allows supervisors to
override a rejected clock entry if an employee is early or late when clocking in (that is, if Dayforce
is configured to reject clock entries outside of grace periods).
Note: When Dayforce makes comparisons for the unpaired threshold, it considers the in clock
entry after any rounding rules have been applied and the raw clock entry time of the out clock
entry.
Ignore Employee Rate for Unpaid Hours in Reports
Select this checkbox and Dayforce includes hours worked with a pay rate of zero when
generating reports. Clear the checkbox and Dayforce includes hours with a pay rate of zero in
reports only if the Include Unpaid Hours in Total checkbox is selected in the report options.
Auto delete balance transactions after employee termination
Sometimes administrators need to backdate an employee termination. For example, if there’s a lag
between the time when an employee is terminated and the recording of the termination in

-- 167 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 168 of 0
Dayforce, and the lag spans several days or weeks, it’s possible that the employee could accrue
entitlements during that time. When this checkbox is selected, Dayforce automatically deletes any
balance transactions after an employee is terminated in the system. When cleared, Dayforce
doesn’t delete any balance transactions after an employee’s termination. This property is disabled
by default.
The following list details which entitlements are deleted and which aren’t:
Balance transactions that belong to transmitted, closed, approved, or locked pay periods
aren’t deleted.
Transactions managed through Dayforce payroll via pay entries, awarded through payroll
processing on pay out, or committed in payroll aren’t deleted.
In open periods, only timesheet transactions after the last pay date are deleted when the
Last Pay Date is specified in the employee’s HR record. Timesheet transactions before the
last pay date aren’t deleted.
Transactions manually added in the employee’s HR record aren’t deleted.
When this client property is enabled, the balance period is deleted only if:
There are no balance transactions within the period.
The balance period start date occurs on or after the termination date (that is, the balance
period start date is greater than or equal to the termination date).
Note: This functionality has no effect on time away from work transactions, which are still removed
automatically by Dayforce after employee termination regardless of the configuration of the Auto
delete balance transactions after employee termination property.
Attendance Management Default Period Range (Months)
Enter the default period range that’s populated, by default, in the Period of fields of the Load
panel in Attendance Management. By default, this field is set to 3 and Dayforce populates the
Period of fields with a range of three months prior to the current date.
Important: Increasing the default value from 3 to a higher number might cause performance
issues in Attendance Management.
Attendance Management Period Limit (Months)
Enter the maximum number of months in the past that users can load in Attendance Management.
By default, this field is set to 18. For example, consider a user who is loading attendance data on
3/28/2022. With this default period limit configuration, the user can’t load attendance data for
dates before 9/28/2020 because they exceed the 18-month period limit.
Important: Increasing the default value from 18 to a higher number might cause performance
issues in Attendance Management.

-- 168 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 169 of 0
Restart Attendance Points on
Select one or both options in this drop-down list to configure Dayforce to reset an employee’s
number of accrued attendance incident points in some situations. You can configure Dayforce to
reset incident point totals after employees are rehired or given a new attendance policy
assignment. The options are: Attendance Policy Change and Rehire.
Use transactional data for attendance
By default, Dayforce examines employees’ pay summaries only when calculating absences. For
example, if an instance of the Assign Pay Code Rule updates the pay code associated with an
absence to a pay code that wasn’t an exception (that is, the Is Exception checkbox wasn't
selected in the pay code’s configuration), Dayforce doesn’t count the time associated with this pay
code as an absence.
Conversely, with this checkbox selected, Dayforce examines an employee’s clock entries, pay
adjustments, and transfers to calculate their absences. This means that the time in the example
above would still be counted as an absence, even though it had been reassigned to a non-
exception pay code.
Retry for X more times, if database result is a deadlock
Controls the number of times that Dayforce should retry saving a timesheet when the process fails
due to a deadlock. For example, if you enter 3, Dayforce retries the save three more times. If the
save still fails, Dayforce shows an error message indicating that the user should click Save again.
Enable period authorization
Controls the ability to use period authorization policies to automatically authorize all days in a pay
period, while using an Unauthorization Rule to identify exceptions and unauthorize records based
on a configured set of settings. See Period Authorization Policies.
Important: If this client property is enabled, Dayforce doesn’t show the Time Review section in the
Workforce Insights feature, even for users with the appropriate role access. To review and
authorize time entries and pay adjustments in the Time Review section, you must clear this
checkbox. See Your Workforce in the Manager Guide.
Enable real time calculations (HTML Timesheets)
Controls whether Dayforce shows the Enable real time calculations checkbox in the Options panel
of Employee Timesheet and Timesheets. When you select the Enable real time calculations
checkbox in these features, Dayforce automatically recalculates the shown data when you make
changes to your timesheet. When you clear the checkbox, Dayforce shows the Recalculate button
in the toolstrip:

-- 169 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 170 of 0
When there are unsaved changes, Dayforce shows an icon ( ) to indicate that the shown data
isn’t up to date. When you click Recalculate, the data in the timesheet is updated and the icon is
removed.
Apply Higher Minimum Wage
When this checkbox is selected, Dayforce enables the following settings:
The Age Start and Age End fields in Pay Setup > Minimum Wages.
The Minimum Wage Effective Start On drop-down list in Pay Setup > Pay Policy. Use this
drop-down list to specify when a minimum wage increase becomes effective when an
employee moves to a new pay band based on their birthday. The drop-down list contains
the following options:
Birthday
Start of Birthday Week
Start of Week Following Birthday Week
Start of Birthday Pay Period
Start of Pay Period Following Birthday Pay Period
Time Review Max Count
Controls the maximum number of records that can be loaded in Time Review. Enter a number to
limit the number of records that the feature shows. For example, to limit the number of records to
100, enter 100 in this field.
When users access Time Review and apply their predefined filters (for example, to view records
needing authorization), and the number of records available exceeds the maximum specified in
the client property, Dayforce shows a notification letting users know that more records exist. Then,
when they finish authorizing records, they can rerun the filter to show more records.
Display Time Review Grid Lines
When enabled, Dayforce shows the Show Grid Lines checkbox in the Options dialog box in Time
Review. When you select the Show Grid Lines checkbox, Dayforce shows grid lines between the
columns for icons in Time Review.
Reject Time Entries If Pay Period Locked

-- 170 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 171 of 0
With this checkbox selected, Dayforce rejects time entries if the pay period is locked.
Reject Time Entries If Pay Period Transmitted
With this checkbox selected, Dayforce rejects time entries if the pay period has already been
transmitted.
Reject Employee Time Entry Imports For Locked Periods
When this checkbox is selected, Dayforce rejects time entry imports if the pay period is locked.
Engine past-dated calculation limit (months)
Defines the maximum number of prior months that Dayforce includes when it calculates changes
using the attendance, base rate, entitlement, job step rate, and payroll engines. This client
property also works in tandem with the WFM GDPR Compliance Check site-level background job,
which tracks calculations and database requests made by WFM engines to ensure Dayforce
meets data minimization settings configured for compliance with General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) legislation. The default value is 999.
For example, if you enter 14 and initiate a pay summary recalculation for 24 months in the past,
the recalculation won’t be performed for the period outside of the calculation limit (in this case, the
first 10 months are excluded).
Important: If you configure the Engine past-dated calculation limit (months) client property with a
value equal to or greater than 120 (or, 10 years), the background job fails to run and the job log
contains an error message.
Additionally, when this client property is configured, Dayforce shows a warning notification in
Employee Timesheet, Manager Timesheet, Time Review, and Timesheets when you load time and
attendance records that fall outside of your configured past-dated calculation limit. For example, if
you enter 2 and load a timesheet from three months in the past, Dayforce shows the following
warning notification:
Records per page (Recommended range: 200 - maximum 500)
Controls the number of employee timesheet records that Dayforce shows per page in Timesheets.
Specify the maximum number of employee records allowable per page. The recommended
maximum value is 500, but you can enter a larger number. Note that a large number of records on
a single page in Timesheets might affect performance in Dayforce.

-- 171 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 172 of 0
When a user loads a location that contains a number of employees that’s larger than the Records
per page value, Dayforce divides their timesheets across separate pages. Users can click the
navigation buttons above the timesheets to load a different page:
Note: When pages are applied in Timesheets, some functionality becomes unavailable in the
feature. See Navigate Between Pages in Timesheets in the Manager Guide.
Enable Auto Confirmation on Start and End Time
Select this checkbox and Dayforce automatically confirms shifts’ start and end times in the shift
details dialog box in Timesheets. When selected, Dayforce doesn’t show the green confirmation
checkmarks in the shift details dialog box. Instead, Dayforce shows arrow icons which you can
use to adjust the start and end times:
Sum balance transactions by TransactionSource
Select this checkbox and Dayforce checks for the source of balance transactions when
recalculating and showing updated approved and accrued totals in balance summaries. When
this checkbox is selected, approved, and accrued balance totals are updated as follows:

-- 172 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 173 of 0
Dayforce decreases approved balance totals when a time away from work
(TAFW) transaction is processed.
Dayforce decreases approved balance totals and increases accrued balance totals when a
TAFW period is canceled.
Dayforce increases and decreases approved balance totals when the duration of an
approved TAFW request is decreased and increased.
Dayforce increases accrued balance totals as employees accrue balances through the
entitlement accrual rules they’re assigned.
Pay Admin Checklist Records per page (2 - 500 per page)
Controls the number of pay group calendar records that Dayforce shows per page in Pay Admin
Checklist. The recommended maximum value is 500, but larger numbers are supported. Note that
showing a large number of records on a single page in Pay Admin Checklist might affect
performance in Dayforce.
When a user loads a pay group that contains more pay group calendar records than the Pay
Admin Checklist Records per page value, Dayforce divides the records across separate pages.
Users can click the navigation buttons above the list to load a different page:
If you use filters, Dayforce also applies the filters to records on pages that aren’t loaded. However,
if you make changes on one page, you must save them before you attempt to load a different
page.
This client property also enables mass action functionality where users can edit multiple pay
group calendar records, even those on pages that aren’t loaded. See Edit Multiple Records (Mass
Action) in the Pay Approval Guide.
Pay Approve Checklist Records per page (2 - 500 per page)
Controls the number of location records that Dayforce shows per page in Pay Approve Checklist.
The recommended maximum value is 500, but larger numbers are supported. Note that showing
a large number of records on a single page in Pay Approve Checklist might affect performance in
Dayforce.
When Pay Approve Checklist contains more locations than the Pay Approve Checklist Records
per page value, Dayforce divides the records across separate pages. Users can click the
navigation buttons above the list to load a different page. If you use filters, Dayforce also applies
the filters to records on pages that aren’t loaded. If you make changes on one page, you must
save them before you attempt to load a different page.

-- 173 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 174 of 0
This client property also enables mass action functionality where users can edit multiple pay
group calendar records, even those on pages that aren’t loaded. See Edit Multiple Records (Mass
Action) in the Manager Guide.
Disable Validation For Job Step Overlap
Before You Begin: This client property is hidden and can only be enabled by contacting support.
The client property isn’t selected by default so you only need to contact support if you don’t want
validations for job step overlap.
Controls whether or not validation messages are shown when a duplicate record of a job rate is
about to be created in Pay Setup > Job Rate in either the Job Rates or Job Step Policy tabs. For
example, if you try to add a job rate in the Job Rates tab that already exists in the Job Step Policy
tab, a validation message shows in the Problems panel.
Additionally, the following configurations within job sets result in a validation message:
Duplicate departments.
Duplicate departments and jobs combined.
Duplicate configuration with no department, but similar jobs selected.
Scheduling
In System Admin > Client Properties in the Properties tab, the settings in the Scheduling section
control how Dayforce schedules employees and shows information in Schedules. Additional
properties control whether Dayforce shows certain types of information, such as unfilled shifts, job
assignments, and pay codes.
Publishes Schedule
Controls if Dayforce tracks whether a schedule was published before it’s printed.
When selected and users print a schedule before it’s published, it’s labeled as a “Draft.”
When cleared, even if the schedule isn’t published, it isn’t labeled as a draft when printed.
Display Job Assignments
Controls if Schedules shows employee job assignments. When cleared, users can’t see which job
assignment is scheduled to a shift and can’t change which job assignment employees are
working during their shifts.
Update/Unfill/Delete Shifts for work assignment changes
When an employee’s work assignment changes, this client property controls whether Dayforce
updates, unfills, or deletes shifts that were scheduled under the employee’s previous assignment.

-- 174 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 175 of 0
Update Future weeks shifts when work assignment changes (Range 1-52 weeks)
If you select Update in the Update/Unfill/Delete Shifts for work assignment changes drop-down
list, enter the number of weeks into the future that Dayforce begins updating shifts when an
employee’s work assignment changes. For example, if you enter 2, Dayforce begins updating
schedules two weeks from the current date.
Use loose activity matching in shift
Controls how Schedules determines which activities can be added to a shift.
When selected, employees can be scheduled for activities they’re qualified to perform
based on each job assignment they’re qualified to work, rather than the job assignment
they’re scheduled to work. For example, if an employee is qualified to work three jobs, and
each job has two distinct activities linked to it, six activities can be scheduled in the shift.
Activities are linked to job assignments in Schedule Setup. See Configure Job Assignment
Activities.
When cleared, employees can be scheduled for activities they’re qualified to perform based
on the job assignment they’re scheduled to work.
Display Pay Codes
Controls whether Schedules shows pay code information. When cleared, users can’t schedule
employees to a specific pay code in the Schedules Grid View.
Auto load
Controls whether the upcoming schedule is loaded in Schedules instead of waiting for users to
select a week and click Load.
Zone in activity overwrites
Controls how Dayforce accounts for the labor spent during scheduled activities. When cleared, all
of the labor from a shift counts toward its zone. This is determined by the job assignment the
employee was scheduled to work during the shift and the activities scheduled to a shift don’t
impact this allocation. When selected, the labor from a shift can count toward an activity’s zone. If
an activity has been linked to a specific zone in Schedule Setup > Activities, then the portion of a
shift covered by that activity counts its labor toward the activity’s zone.
See Configure Activities.
Level of view detail
Determines the level of detail in the Grid View for scheduled shifts, which is shown in the slider in
the Options panel:

-- 175 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 176 of 0
Schedule: Low level of detail, showing only shifts’ start and end times. Users must change
the level of detail, or edit an existing shift, to see any scheduled meals or activities.
Schedule and meals: Medium level of detail, showing start and end times of shifts and
meals. Users must change the level of detail, or edit an existing shift, to see any scheduled
activities.
Schedule, meals and activities: High level of detail, showing the scheduled shift’s start and
end times, meal start and end times, and any scheduled activity in the shift.
Shift must be in one zone
Controls whether employees must work their entire shift in the same zone. When selected, users
can’t schedule employees for activities outside of their shift’s zone.
Display Detailed Coverage
Controls if Dayforce shows detailed coverage information along the top of the Schedules Bar View.
When selected, Dayforce shows the number of scheduled hours and the variance between
planned and scheduled hours, for both daily and quarter-hour labor demand:
Layout mode
Controls the default layout that the Bar View uses. Each view provides a slightly different schedule
layout. The options are:
Coverage View: Dayforce stacks scheduled shifts according to shift start times.
Employee View: Dayforce lists employees alphabetically on the view’s left side and shows
the number of hours that they’re scheduled each week.
Daily Employee View: Similar to the Employee View, but this view shows only employees that
are scheduled on the day of the week that you select.
Show Schedule Rule Set in Problem Pane
Enables the Rule Set column in the Problems panel in Centralized Schedules and Schedules. This
column indicates which ruleset in your schedule rule policy was violated based on the schedule
problem, when applicable.
Show Schedule Rule in Problem Pane
Enables the Rule column in the Problems panel in Centralized Schedules and Schedules. This
column indicates which rule in your schedule rule policy was violated based on the schedule
problem, when applicable.

-- 176 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 177 of 0
View mode
Controls whether Schedules opens in the Bar View, Grid View, or Split View. See Schedule Options
in the Manager Guide.
Reallocate meals/breaks
Controls if Dayforce reallocates meals and breaks when users edit the schedule. When selected,
Dayforce adds, removes, or reschedules any meal or break on a scheduled shift when the shift's
duration is edited. When or if the meal or break is rescheduled depends on the meal and break
allocation rules that are already configured. These rules dictate how many meals and breaks shifts
receive automatically, and they’re based on the shift’s scheduled duration. For example, the rules
might state that a four-hour shift receives one 15-minute break. When a user changes a three-hour
shift, which wasn’t scheduled for a break, to last five hours, Dayforce automatically schedules the
15-minute break.
You configure meal and break allocations in time entry policies in Pay Setup > Time Entry Policy.
See Meal and Break Allocations.
Show minors
Controls whether Dayforce indicates minor employees in Schedules and Centralized Schedules
by default. When this checkbox is selected, the Indicate Minor Status checkbox in the Options
panel is selected by default and Dayforce places the minor icon ( ) next to employees’ names in
the Grid View. Users can select the Indicate Minor Status option if it’s not enabled by default and
can also unselected it.
Minor Age (Age of Minority within scheduling)
Defines the age of minority in Schedules and Centralized Schedules. Dayforce places the minor
icon ( ) next to employees’ names in the Grid View if the Indicate Minor Status checkbox in the
Options panel is selected. By default, this client property is set to 18 and you can update it as
required.
Auto select activity
Controls whether Dayforce automatically selects and schedules an employee to their job
assignment’s primary activity. Dayforce schedules an activity if the job assignment has at least one
activity assigned to it in Schedule Setup > Job Assignment Activities. If the job assignment has
more than one activity assigned to it, Dayforce assigns the activity that’s at the top of the list.
Enable Customized Employee Sort Order

-- 177 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 178 of 0
Controls the ability to specify a custom employee sort order in Centralized Schedules and
Schedules. When enabled, you can click Custom Sort in the toolstrip to reveal arrow icons in the
Employees column of the Schedules Grid View. Use these arrow icons to reorder the list of
employees:
The Printed Schedule Report and the Manager Coverage Report respect the custom sort order
you apply in Schedules.
Primary sort, Secondary sort, and Third sort
These three drop-down lists define the order in which schedules are shown by default. The
Primary sort drop-down list defines how schedules are sorted first, and the Secondary sort and
Third sort lists used for successive sorts. The schedule can be sorted by department name,
employee job rank, employee name, job rank, pay class rank, seniority date, or zone.
Note: Any sort order defined in Schedules supersedes a default sort order that’s configured using
these client properties. To ensure that these client properties are respected, remove the
configured sort order (if available) in Schedules by clicking Sort and removing any sorting options
in the Selected column.
Job ranks are assigned to the jobs configured in Dayforce. See Jobs and Job Assignments
Configuration. If the schedule is sorted by job ranks, shifts with the job that has the highest job
rank are shown at the top of the schedule.
Similarly, pay class ranks reference each pay class’s sort order. See Create Pay Classes in the
HR Administration Guide.
Dayforce sorts zones based on each zone’s sort index. See Create Zones.

-- 178 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 179 of 0
Primary sort direction, Secondary sort direction, and Third sort direction
Select ascending or descending.
Allow unfilled shifts
Controls if Dayforce includes unfilled shifts. When cleared, unfilled shifts aren’t shown on the
schedule and users can’t schedule them.
This functionality is required for unfilled shift bidding. See Shift Bids.
Create unfilled shifts for tafw
Controls whether users can create unfilled shifts when they approve time away from work requests
for employees with scheduled shifts. For example, if an employee was scheduled to work from
9:00 AM to 5:00 PM on March 2, but then they submit a time away request, you could create an
unfilled 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM shift when you approve the employee’s request.
Bar View Sort Criteria First
Controls the default setting for the Apply Sorting before Stacking Shifts checkbox in the Sort panel
in Schedules. When you select this in Schedules, Dayforce first sorts schedules using the Bar
View editor in Coverage View by the sort order the user has configured in the Sort panel, and then
by shift times. When you clear the checkbox, the reverse is true and Dayforce sorts schedules first
by shift time, and then by the user’s sort criteria.
Annotate Closing Shifts on Posted Schedule Report
Controls whether the end time of closing shifts are marked with a C in the Posted Schedule
Report. When cleared, Dayforce shows shift start and end times in the report, even if a shift is
scheduled until close.
Hide Departments
Controls whether Dayforce hides the Zone filter in Schedules and Timesheets.
Limit Availability on Grid Scheduler to Operating Hours
Controls how Dayforce examines employee availability. When selected, Dayforce considers
availability only during a location’s operating hours. If an employee is available only outside of
operating hours, Dayforce marks the employee as unavailable all day in Schedules. Dayforce
shows availability only during operating hours. When cleared, Dayforce considers employee
availability during the entire day.
Display activity filter

-- 179 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 180 of 0
Controls if Dayforce shows the activity filter on the schedule. When selected, users can filter the
schedule based on the activities scheduled to shifts.
Display pay class rank sort
Controls whether users can sort the schedule by pay class rank.
Default Schedule Start, Default Schedule End
Defines shifts’ default start and end times if they’re added through the Grid View.
Grid Autopopulates Meals Before Add Completion
Controls how Dayforce automatically populates meals and breaks in Schedules the first time that a
manager uses the feature. When this checkbox is selected, the Autopopulate Meal/Break Before
Add checkbox is automatically selected in Schedules in the Options panel when a user opens the
feature and schedules employees for the first time. The Autopopulate Meal/Break Before Add
checkbox controls whether Dayforce uses the meal and break configuration in the employee’s
time entry policy to auto-assign meals and breaks to new user-generated shifts.
When the Grid Autopopulates Meals Before Add Completion client property isn’t enabled, the
Autopopulate Meal/Break Before Add checkbox is cleared in Schedules when a manager uses
the feature for the first time. When the Autopopulate Meal/Break Before Add checkbox is cleared
in Schedules, Dayforce doesn’t automatically add meals and breaks to new user-generated shifts.
Note: This client property only controls the Autopopulate Meal/Break Before Add checkbox
functionality in Schedules when a manager uses the feature for the first time. If a manager
changes the Autopopulate Meal/Break Before Add configuration (that is, by selecting or clearing
the checkbox), their input takes precedence and overrides the Grid Autopopulates Meals Before
Add Completion client property.
Day of week when next week shown
Defines when Dayforce loads the next schedule period:
0 loads the next schedule period.
7 loads the current schedule period.
1 to 6 determines which schedule loads, based on the current day’s number in the days of
the week. For example, say an organization’s week starts on Monday and a user goes to
Schedules on Wednesday, which is the third day of the week. If you enter 2, Dayforce loads
the next week’s schedule. If you enter 4, it loads the current week.
Show Audit for unposted schedule
Defines whether Dayforce shows audit information for unposted schedules:

-- 180 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 181 of 0
When selected, the Audits panel shows any changes that are made to the schedule after it’s
saved, but before it’s posted.
When cleared, the Audits panel shows only changes made to posted schedules (using the
Post button in Schedules).
Enable Comments
When selected, managers can add comments for an employee when adding or editing shifts in
Schedules. For example, a manager could inform their employees of an alternate work location.
Employees can view shift comments in Work > Calendar:
Scheduling Interval Size
Defines the minimum increment that users can specify or change scheduled times by when
adding or editing shifts. You can select the following increments:
1 Minute: Shifts can be scheduled to the desired minute. For example, you can schedule a
shift to start at 8:58 AM and end at 3:28 PM.
Note: Selecting this option disables the Schedules Bar View and Split View. However,
Dayforce still shows coverage totals.
5 Minutes: Shifts can be scheduled on the hour, or at five minute intervals past the hour.
15 Minutes: Shifts can be scheduled on the hour, or 15, 30, or 45 minutes past the hour.
When you select 1 Minute, Dayforce also supports 1-minute schedule increments for the following:
Shift rotations
Activities
Schedule templates
Schedule auditing
Schedule compliance rules (for example, Core Hours Rule, Daily Hours Rule, Minimum Rest
In Period Rule, and others)
Printed Schedule Report
Schedule Audit Report
Note: The Daily Coverage Report and Manager Coverage Report don’t support 1-minute
schedule increments. These reports are unavailable to users when 1-minute increments are
enabled.

-- 181 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 182 of 0
Exporting schedules
Importing schedules
Find Candidate
Fill Unfilled Shifts
Tooltips
Time entry policies
The Scheduling Interval Size client property also governs the behavior of the Min Duration
(minutes) field in activities. Dayforce rounds the value specified in Min Duration (minutes) up to the
nearest interval size specified in the Scheduling Interval Size client property. For example, if the
interval specified is 15 minutes, and the Min Duration (minutes) is 16 minutes, then the minimum
activity length applied for scheduling is rounded to 30 minutes. However, continuing that example,
if the Scheduling Interval Size property is set to 5 minutes, then the minimum activity length
applied for scheduling is 20 minutes.
Autofill will allow work to start/end/change
Defines the default points in the hour that shifts can start or end when you create shifts using
autofill. You can configure shifts to start every 15 minutes, on the 30 and 60 minute marks, or only
on the 60-minute mark. Every 15 minutes is selected by default. When users create a schedule
using autofill, the option that you select is selected by default in the Options dialog box. If
necessary, the user can select another option to change when shifts start, end, or change for the
schedule that they’re creating.
Prompt to clear
Defines if Dayforce shows a prompt when users click the Clear button in Schedules. Select Always
and Dayforce shows a prompt. Select Never and Dayforce doesn’t show a prompt. Clearing a
loaded schedule deletes every scheduled shift, based on the user’s access and any applied
filters. By prompting users to confirm, Dayforce helps ensure that this action is performed only
when appropriate.
Number of Editable Scheduled Days in the Past
Defines the number of rolling 24 hour periods into the past (if any) that Dayforce permits users to
edit schedules, either through Schedules or the schedule import. For example, enter 14 and users
with access can go back a maximum of 14 rolling 24 hour periods from the present time and still
edit schedules. You can also enter a negative number to restrict edits to future schedules. For
example, to prevent users from editing shifts that are within the next three rolling 24 hour periods,
enter -3. This prevents users from editing any shifts that occur from now (for example, 3:00 AM
Monday) until three rolling 24 hour periods in the future (that is, 3:00 AM Thursday). Also, because
the number isn’t positive, this prevents users from editing any schedules prior to that time in the
past. By default, the value is 0.

-- 182 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 183 of 0
The ability to allow past edits to schedules is intended for situations where an employee’s
schedule has changed, but the schedule wasn’t modified in time to reflect the new hours that the
employee will be working. For example, if a manager calls an employee in to cover an
unexpected absence, then the employee works the shift, and records the time. Dayforce shows
this as an unscheduled, worked shift in Timesheets, even though the employee’s manager asked
them to come in to work on short notice or there was an agreement to work another shift. With this
functionality, the employee’s manager can update the schedule afterwards, even though it’s in the
past, to reflect what the employee was asked to work.
This functionality is controlled by this client property and the Edit Past Schedules access
authorization.
To allow past schedule edits or prevent future edits:
In the Number of Editable Scheduled Days in the Past client property, specify the number of
days into the past that users with access can edit schedules.
In System Admin > Roles, in the Authorizations tab, locate the Edit Past Schedules access
authorization and assign all permissions. See Configure User Role Authorizations.
Note: When you edit a past schedule, Dayforce runs the rule engine to recalculate employees’
pay and changes to pay can occur, depending on the configuration of the pay rules and
qualifiers. For added security and to prevent Dayforce from creating inadvertent retros, it isn’t
possible to edit schedules in retro pay periods (that is, on transmitted pay periods). However,
users with access can still edit schedules in past, non-retro periods.
Schedule Approval Request Workflow
Role feature access: Schedules > Forms Action > Schedule Approval Request
Enables Dayforce to use workflows for schedule approval. When this client property is enabled
and users’ roles have access to the Schedules > Forms Action > Schedule Approval Request role
feature, the Request button is available in Schedules in the toolstrip. Users with access can click
Request to configure and submit the Schedule Approval Request form. See Schedules.
KPI for Schedule Efficiency Score
Links a KPI to the Recalculate Schedule Efficiency background job, which is used to store
schedule efficiency scores in the database. You can use the selected KPI to track daily and
weekly schedule efficiency scores for locations and their zones in Plan and Operation View, and to
create reports on schedule efficiency in Reporting and Analytics. It can be used to track scores of
individual stores or the average score of stores under an above store location (for example, to
provide a district-wide schedule efficiency score).
First, you need to create a KPI for schedule efficiency. Because schedule efficiency is a
percentage value, the KPI must use a percentage.

-- 183 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 184 of 0
Then, select the KPI in the KPI for Schedule Efficiency Score drop-down list to link the KPI to the
Recalculate Schedule Efficiency background job. The drop-down list shows only KPIs that use a
percentage value. When a schedule efficiency KPI is defined, run the Recalculate Schedule
Efficiency background job to store schedule efficiency scores in the database. For more
information on configuring KPIs for use in Dayforce, see the following sections:
To configure KPIs for use in Plan, see KPIs and KPI Metadata.
To configure KPIs for use in Operation View, see Operation Dashboards Configuration.
To create ad hoc reports, see Ad Hoc Report Administration.
Skip the one-step look-ahead for base coverage in autofill
With one-step look-ahead, Dayforce checks to see if making a schedule change will detrimentally
impact the next step in the autofill. This property controls whether the Skip base coverage
checking checkbox in the Autofill dialog box is selected by default. When you select this
checkbox, autofill doesn’t check for detrimental impacts to base coverage when filling the
schedule.
Skip the one-step look-ahead for minimum non-work staffing in autofill
Controls whether the Skip the one-step look-ahead for minimum staffing coverage checkbox in the
Autofill dialog box is selected by default. When you select this checkbox, autofill doesn’t check for
minimum staffing coverage.
Autofill covers shifts with activities where possible
Controls whether the Activities cover the whole shift checkbox in the Autofill dialog box is selected
by default. When you select this checkbox, autofill tries to add/modify activities within shifts at the
end of the process to see it can improve schedule efficiency.
Skip appending activities to shifts improvement method
Controls whether the Skip append activity improvement checkbox in the Autofill dialog box is
selected by default. This option is enabled by default because it should generally be skipped
unless being used for configuration purposes. When enabled, this option attempts to cover a shift
entirely with activities which can have some undesirable side effects outside of configuration
scenarios.
Values to show in employee totals
Defines which employee totals Dayforce shows in Schedules. By default, Schedule Total and Zone
Total are selected. If necessary, select Weekly Contract Target to show the weekly contract target
(that is, the Normal Weekly Hours value from the employee profile) for employees who are
assigned a contract. When selected, Dayforce shows this total in the following places:

-- 184 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 185 of 0
When using Schedules in Grid View, Dayforce shows the weekly contract target for contract
employees after the other totals in the Total column:
The weekly contract target value comes from the Normal Weekly Hours field in the
employee’s HR record. In the example above, Dayforce shows the weekly total and the
zone total (both 35), followed by the employee’s weekly contract target (38). For contract
employees who aren’t assigned a Normal Weekly Hours value, Dayforce shows “--” in place
of the weekly contract target:
For non-contract employees, Dayforce shows only the other totals:
When using either the Employee View or Daily Employee View in the Schedules Bar View,
Dayforce shows contract employees’ weekly contract target next to their weekly total in the
employees list on the left side of schedule.
Match Employee Transfer based on

-- 185 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 186 of 0
Specifies how Dayforce determines which employees you can reassign shifts to. When you select
Job Assignments, Dayforce restricts shift reassignment based on job assignment. For example, a
Supervisor shift can be reassigned only to another employee with a work assignment for the
Supervisor job assignment. When you select Activities, Dayforce ignores shifts’ job assignments
and users can reassign it based on the activity. So, if the Markdowns activity is associated with a
shift, Dayforce allows you to reassign the shift to any employee who can perform that activity,
regardless of their job assignment.
Note the following when using the Match Employee Transfer based on client property:
When this client property is set to Activities but no activities are assigned to the selected
shift, Dayforce reverts back to Job Assignments.
When an employee has more than one job assignment that they can work at an activity,
Dayforce defaults to their primary job assignment. If they can work only that activity in non-
primary job assignments, Dayforce uses the first non-primary job assignment it finds.
Dayforce respects this client property regardless of whether users reassign the shift using
the Find Candidate dialog box, by selecting a new employee in the drop-down list when
editing the shift, or by dragging and dropping the shift into a new cell in Grid View.
Display Individual Availabilities
Select the Display individual availabilities checkbox by default in the Options panel of the
Schedules Bar View. When selected, Dayforce limits each employee’s availability to their own row,
so that you can view availability for multiple employees at once:
When you clear the checkbox, Dayforce shows only the availability of the employee that you’re
hovering over, because the availability occupies the entire schedule grid:

-- 186 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 187 of 0
Auto delete activities in bar view
Controls whether activities are automatically deleted in the Bar View when users modify the
duration of the associated shift. When you select this checkbox, Dayforce automatically deletes
activities. When this checkbox is cleared, you must delete the activities separately.
Save required before report printing
Specifies whether users can print schedules without saving their latest changes. When selected,
users can’t print reports in Schedules until they save their latest schedule changes. When cleared,
users can print schedule reports even if they haven’t saved their latest schedule changes.
Prefer primary job assignment filtering
Enables the Prefer primary job assignment filtering checkbox in the Autofill dialog box under
Options > Construction. When this property is enabled, users can select the checkbox to
schedule employees by primary job assignment first when running autofill. The checkbox in the
autofill options is selected by default.
Explicit Day of Week Ordering
Controls the order in which Dayforce schedules shifts using autofill. When this checkbox is
selected, Dayforce applies the customized weekly order that’s configured in Schedule Setup
> Assignment Policy in the Weekly Order tab when determining which shifts to add to the
schedule first. If this checkbox is cleared, Dayforce doesn’t use your customized weekly order
and adds the shifts to the schedule randomly.
For more information about weekly orders for autofill, see Assignment Policies and Configure the
Weekly Order.
Bar View Ruler
Specifies which ruler type Dayforce shows in the Bar View:
Duration: View the shift’s duration when modifying an employee’s shift in the Schedules Bar
View.

-- 187 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 188 of 0
Start & end times: Select this option to view the employee’s shift times when modifying their
shift in the Schedules Bar View:
Show Report Version
Controls whether Dayforce shows a report version number in the Printed Schedule Report,
Daily Coverage Report, and Manager Coverage Report. The version number increments by 0.1
each time you generate the report if the schedule has been updated since the last time it was
generated.
Run Rule Engine on Schedule Save
Controls whether Dayforce runs the Pay Summary Recalc job every time you save their schedule,
or only when the Pay Summary Recalc nightly job runs. When selected, the Pay Summary Recalc
job runs automatically along with the Reconcile Schedule Data background job, every time you
save a schedule. When cleared, the Reconcile Schedule Data background job runs without
running the Pay Summary Recalc job. Only the Tardy and Time Entry Problem Recalc job engines
run. Saved schedules aren’t recalculated via the Pay Summary Recalc job until the Pay Summary
Recalc nightly job runs.
Enable Projects, Dockets, and User Defined Labor Metrics on Scheduler
Controls whether Dayforce shows projects, dockets, and user-defined labor metric codes in
Schedules, and whether managers can add, edit, or remove a schedule’s projects, dockets, and
labor metrics. In Schedules, Dayforce shows project, docket, and labor metric information in:
The dialog boxes and panels where managers add and edit shifts.
The Cost panel in the Daily tab.
When this checkbox is cleared, Dayforce doesn’t show project, docket, and labor metrics data in
Schedules, and it’s unavailable to add to shifts. This restriction occurs even if your organization’s
time entry policies are configured to support projects, dockets, and labor metrics. Also, when this

-- 188 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 189 of 0
client property is disabled, Dayforce doesn’t add project, docket, or labor metrics to shifts that you
create using shift rotations or templates.
Availability Period Maximum Length
Specifies the maximum number of weeks that managers and employees can include when editing
the availability period, up to a maximum of eight weeks. For example, if you select 3, users can
modify employee availability for three straight weeks.
If you select an option greater than 1 in this drop-down list, Dayforce shows the Duration (weeks)
drop-down list when users make edits to default availability. In the drop-down list, users can select
the number of weeks that they want to update default availability for. This setting is available in:
Work > Calendar
People, in the Work > Availability screen
See:
Work > Availability in the HR Administration Guide
Manage Availability Requests in the Manager Guide
Manage Your Availability in the Employee Guide
Use auto complete for dockets
By default, Dayforce loads all of the dockets that an employee has access to, which can take
longer for customers with a large number of dockets. Select this checkbox and Dayforce shows a
dialog box where you can search for dockets to load.
Use auto complete for projects
By default, Dayforce loads all of the projects that an employee has access to, which can take
longer for customers with a large number of projects. Select this checkbox and Dayforce shows a
dialog box where you can search for projects to load.
Note: Unlike full-text searches, this control uses prefix-matching, which means that the search text
must exactly match the start of the project name.
Use auto complete for labor metric codes
By default, Dayforce loads all of the labor metrics that an employee has access to, which can take
longer for customers with a large number of metrics. Select this checkbox and Dayforce shows a
dialog box where you can search for labor metrics to load.
Enable real time calculations (HTML Scheduler)
Use the Recalculate button in the toolstrip to recalculate data in the Cost and KPI panels. When
this checkbox is cleared, the Recalculate button recalculates all schedule information as well as

-- 189 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 190 of 0
data in the Cost and KPI panels.
Mobile Calendar Inbox Future Date Range
Controls the date-range threshold for the Schedule Acceptance – Schedule Offer Sent notification.
If a manager creates a new schedule offer for an employee that falls outside of this future date
range, Dayforce doesn’t notify the employee about the offer. This client property is set to 90 days,
by default.
Consider an example where this client property is set to 14. If a manager updates a shift that’s 22
days in the future, Dayforce doesn’t send a schedule acceptance offer to the affected employee
because the shift is outside of the 14-day threshold.
See Schedule Acceptance – Schedule Offer Sent.
Enable Schedule Acceptance
Enables the schedule acceptance functionality in Dayforce. When this checkbox is selected,
Dayforce enables the following in Schedules:
The Revoke Offers button in the toolstrip.
The Rejected Offers tab in the Problems panel.
See Schedule Acceptance.
Visible MyPlan Columns
Defines whether Dayforce shows or hides each of the forma columns in Plan. Dayforce shows
only the specified columns to users in Plan.
ML Forecasting - KPI Selection for Training
Controls which KPI is used for model training in the ML-Powered Demand Forecasting feature in
Plan. Currently, you can select only one KPI and selecting a new KPI may replace any previously
selected KPI for ML training.
Make All Non-Productive Shifts Non-Editable
Dayforce grays out non-productive shifts on the schedule and you can’t edit them.
Autofill primary work assignment restriction level
Specifies the default to apply when you use autofill to schedule employees based on their primary
work assignment. The options are:
No Restriction: All employees are eligible for scheduling, including those that don’t primarily
work at this location. This is the default selection.

-- 190 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 191 of 0
Primary Location: Employees are restricted to being scheduled to their primary location but
can be scheduled to any on-site department and any job assignment.
Primary Job Assignment: Employees are restricted to being scheduled to their primary
location, their primary on-site department, and their primary job assignment. So, they can
be scheduled only to their primary work assignment. This is the most restrictive option.
Maximum Number of Weeks in the Past to Allow Edits in Plan
Role feature access: Plan > Edit
The maximum number of weeks in the past that users can modify plans in Plan. For example, this
field can be thought of as the earliest week relative to the current week that you can edit in Plan.
By default, the value in the field is 0 and users can only edit the values in the Manager Adjust
column for the current and future weeks. This field accepts integer values including zero and
negative numbers. Consider the following examples of this field’s configuration:
Enter 1 and users can edit future weeks, the current week, and up to one week in the past.
Enter 0 and users can edit the current week and the future weeks, but not previous weeks.
Enter -1 and users can edit only future weeks, but not the current or previous weeks.
If left empty, all weeks are editable if the Plan > Edit role feature is enabled in System Admin >
Roles in the Features tab.
Work Contract info to show on Scheduler
The work contract information that Dayforce shows in Schedules.
Work Contract Info to show on Scheduler Tooltip
The work contract information that Dayforce shows in tooltips in Schedules.
Show Html Sales Statistics
Dayforce selects the Show Sales Statistics checkbox in the Options panel by default in the
Schedules Bar View.
Skip scheduling tasks in Autofill
Dayforce selects the Skip Scheduling Tasks checkbox by default in the Autofill dialog box of the
Schedules Grid View.
Enable paging
Dayforce shows the Enable Paging checkbox in the General Options section of the Options panel
in Schedules. Select the Enable Paging checkbox to divide employee shift records across
separate pages in the Grid View rather than showing them on a single screen. This functionality is

-- 191 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 192 of 0
useful for organizations with a large number of employees. This client property is used in
conjunction with the Records per page client property. When this functionality is enabled,
Dayforce shows page selectors above the schedules grid to control which page of employee
records you want to view:
When the Enable paging checkbox is selected and you load a location in Schedules, Dayforce
checks whether the number of employees at that location exceeds the value specified in the
Records per page client property. If the location has a larger number of employees than the
Records per page value, Dayforce shows the Enable Paging checkbox in the General Options
section of the Options panel, and is selected by default.
Note: When paging is enabled in Schedules, some functionality becomes unavailable. See
Schedule Options in the Manager Guide.
Records per page (Recommended range: 200 - 1000)
Controls the number of employee shift records that Dayforce shows per page in the Schedules
Grid View, and is used in conjunction with the Enable paging client property. Specify the maximum
number of employee records allowable per page. The default value is 750.
Default Landing Pane
Controls the panel that loads by default in Schedules. For example, select Audits and the Audits
panel opens by default when you load a schedule.
Completely Exclude Shifts With Non Productive Transfers
Dayforce doesn’t show non-productive shifts in Schedules.
Allow only authorized manager to view violations
Controls who can view and correct scheduling violations for borrowed employees in Schedules.
When selected, the following occurs, depending on the borrowed employee’s status:
If an employee is exclusively borrowed to another location, scheduling violations are visible
only to the location that's borrowing the employee.

-- 192 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 193 of 0
If an employee works at multiple locations, scheduling violations are visible only to the
affected location.
Secondary Employee Display
Controls the employee attributes that Dayforce shows in Centralized Schedules and Schedules.
Dayforce shows the attributes that you select below employees’ names. The options are:
Pay Group
Pay Class
Rotation
Primary Location
Employee Number
Display All TAFW Reason Codes in the Time Off Type Filter of screen(s)
Controls the time away codes that Dayforce shows in the Time Off Type filter in Multi-Week
Calendar and Schedules:
[None]
Schedules
Multi-Week Calendar
Both
When configured, Dayforce shows all of the time away codes that are configured in the
application, instead of just the time away codes that are present in the loaded period. For
example, if you select Schedules, Dayforce shows all time away codes in Schedules, but it shows
only time away codes for the current week in Multi-Week Calendar.
Schedule Cost Pane, Scheduled Hours sum by worked hours only
Dayforce shows the accurate number of scheduled hours in the Cost panel in Schedules. When
this checkbox is cleared, Dayforce duplicates the shown scheduled hours in cases where there
are separate premiums.
Autofill Allow Shifts To End On 8th Day
When autofill runs, it can create shifts that start on the last day of the week (the 7th day) and end
within the first day of the next week (the 8th day). See Generate Shifts Using Autofill (Schedules
Only) in the Manager Guide and Schedule Solver Execution Job.
Edit Posted Unfilled Shifts
Role feature access: Schedules > Enable Segment Display
Controls whether users can edit unfilled shifts in Schedules and Centralized Schedules that have
already been posted.

-- 193 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 194 of 0
Shift Marketplace
Controls access to Shift Marketplace functionality in Dayforce. In the mobile Shift Marketplace
feature, employees can pick up shifts at eligible, non-primary locations. When the Shift
Marketplace client property is enabled, Dayforce shows information about Shift Marketplace shifts
in several features.
This client property also enables access to:
The Shift Marketplace checkbox in People in the Work > Work Assignments screen. When
employees pick up shifts in Shift Marketplace at eligible locations for the first time, Dayforce
automatically creates a Shift Marketplace work assignment for the employe. Optionally, you
can also manually enable Shift Marketplace functionality for employees by creating a new
secondary work assignment for them and selecting this checkbox. This checkbox is
available only for secondary work assignments.
The Display Shift Marketplace Employees checkbox in the Options panels in Schedules and
Multi-Week Calendar.
The Display Scheduled Shift Marketplace Employees checkbox in the Options panel in
Timesheets.
When these display checkboxes are selected in the scheduling and timesheet features, Dayforce
shows Shift Marketplace shifts and employees in schedules and timesheets. Note that in
Timesheets, Dayforce shows some Shift Marketplace information by default, regardless if the
Display Scheduled Shift Marketplace Employees checkbox is selected or cleared. See Shift
Marketplace Shift Display in Timesheets in the Manager Guide.
When you enable the Shift Marketplace client property, Dayforce also marks affected shifts with
the Shift Marketplace icon ( ) in the following timesheet features, by default:
Employee Timesheet
Manager Timesheet
Work > Timesheet
Features where you can load duration timesheets (Pay Admin Checklist, Pay Approve
Checklist, Period Review, Time Review, Work > Calendar)
Important: You shouldn’t enable and disable the Shift Marketplace client property periodically. If
the Shift Marketplace client property is enabled and then you disable it, Dayforce converts
existing Shift Marketplace shifts and pay adjustments to shifts with a secondary work assignment
in timesheet 