423 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 424 of 0
Dayforce uses the daily efficiency score.
BothServiceOutsideHOO: Dayforce uses both quarter hour and daily coverage
scores. The quarter hour method is used for service activities and the daily method for
non-service activities.
6. In the Scheduling Method drop-down list, select how the Dayforce autofill feature creates
schedules for the zone:
Deployment Template: Dayforce follows a template that breaks up the zone's daily
labor demand into multiple curves, one for each different activity specified.
Manual or None: Dayforce doesn't autofill the zone’s schedule. If autofill is run for the
location, Dayforce leaves the schedules of any zones configured with this option
blank so that a manager can create the schedule for the zone manually.
Note: Autofill doesn’t distinguish between selecting Manual or None. In both cases, it
skips the zone and doesn’t schedule shifts to it.
Optimization: Dayforce doesn't consider activities when creating a schedule. It
considers one labor demand curve and attempts to fill the schedule so that the
demand is met at every point in the curve.
7. In the Priority Order field, enter the relative order in which the zone is staffed when autofill
runs.
8. In the Max Staffing Level field, enter the maximum demand level, in number of employees,
the zone can reach at any time. When Dayforce distributes labor to the zone, it never
exceeds this level at any time. For example, if there are five cash registers, set the value for
the zone to 5, because the demand for cashiers shouldn't exceed the number of available
registers.
9. In the Sort Index field, enter a number that represents the sort order of this zone relative to
other zones. This number is used to sort zones on schedules. For example, to configure a
zone so that it is always shown first when schedules are sorted in ascending order by zone,
enter 1. Zones without a Sort Index are shown last when sorted in ascending order, and first
in descending order.
10. Note: If none of the zones are assigned a Sort Index, Dayforce doesn’t sort schedules by
zone. Instead, it either sorts by the next sort option (for example, if zone was the primary
sort option, it would sort by the secondary one instead), or sorts by employee name in
cases where zone was the tertiary sort option.
10. (Optional) Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field. This code must be
unique and must not contain special characters.
11. Click Save.
Repeat these steps to create the different zones in your locations. You assign them to locations
using zone packages, which are created after you configure all of your zones. See Create Zone
Packages.
Create Zone Packages

-- 424 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 425 of 0
Zone packages are a collection of departments and zones that are used to quickly assign zones
and departments to new locations that you create in Dayforce.
A zone package can be company wide, specific to a region, a district, or a single location.
Dayforce applies default zone packages in such a manner that it takes the “closest” zone
package on the organizational hierarchy. As Dayforce starts at the location and browses up the
organizational hierarchy, the first zone package it “finds” is assigned to the location.
For example, if you assign the “All Zones” package to the top of the hierarchy, but the “Specialty”
zone package to the “Eastern” district of the organizational hierarchy, all of the locations in the
“Eastern” district are assigned the “Specialty” zone package by default. The rest of the locations
receive the “All Zones” package by default.
Note: You can assign any zone package to any new location when you define locations. Where
zone packages are assigned in your organizational hierarchy only impacts which package
Dayforce assigns to a new location by default.
Zone packages link departments to zones in the locations they are assigned to. For example, in a
grocery chain, most of the locations have a butcher department, but smaller stores only sell
prepackaged and sliced meat without a butcher on site, and as a result don’t employ butchers.
In both cases, stores are configured with a “Deli” zone, but the smaller stores don’t have a
butcher department linked to their Deli zone.
You create as many zone packages as needed in Org Setup > Zones Configuration. The more
locations with different combinations of zones and departments there are in your organization, the
more zone packages you need to create.
To create zone packages:
1. Go to Org Setup > Zones Configuration and click the Zone Packages tab.
2. Click Add.
3. In the General section, enter a name and, optionally, a description for the zone package.
4. In the Organization field, select the areas of your organization that are assigned the zone
package.
5. For the first zone package you create, select the Is Master checkbox.
6. Note: You should configure only one zone package with the Is Master checkbox selected.
6. (Optional) Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field. This code must be
unique and must not contain special characters.
7. In the Zone Department Configuration section, Dayforce shows a list of departments. For
each department you want to include in the zone package, select which zone it belongs to
in the Zone drop-down list.
Note: For the Is Master zone package, you should include every department.

-- 425 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 426 of 0
8. (Optional) Select the Hide Unassigned Departments checkbox to hide departments that
aren’t assigned a zone in the Zone column.
9. Click Save.
Create Merchandising Departments
In Dayforce, merchandising departments are used to track sales by assigning products to the
appropriate department. Products in stores are often organized by departments. For example, an
electronics store might have a computer department and a home theater department. When
customer service puts through the sale of a television, the sale is linked in the Point-of-Sales (POS)
system with the home theater department. Merchandising departments are used in Dayforce to
link this POS data with the corresponding zone. As Dayforce uses zones for labor planning and
scheduling, it’s important to link the two so that accurate data can be used for labor planning.
Note: Although a retail company’s use of merchandising departments is a common example,
departments can be configured for organizations in other industries to track drivers for the labor
budget as well. For example, the number of transactions in a bank branch, tied to different areas
of the branch, can be used to set up merchandising departments which track the transactions
and link them to appropriate zones in the bank.
You create as many merchandising departments as you need in Org Setup > Zones Configuration.
The higher the number of departments locations track their sales against, the more merchandising
departments you'll need to set up.
To define a merchandising department:
1. Go to Org Setup > Zones Configuration and click the MDSE Departments tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description of the merchandising department.
4. Enter a reference code in the Reference Code field. This code must be unique and must not
contain special characters.
5. Important: If you are linking the merchandising department in Dayforce with a department
tracked by your POS system, this needs to be the same code the POS system uses to mark
sales from the department. That way, sales data is correctly attributed to the merchandising
department in Dayforce.
5. Click Save.
Next, you need to link it to a zone in the Zone MDSE Department tab.
Link Merchandising Departments to Zones
After you've created the merchandising departments your organization uses to track its location's
performance (commonly sales), you need to link the merchandising departments to the
appropriate zones. Typically, this is the zone that earns the merchandising department's sales. For

-- 426 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 427 of 0
example, say you've defined several merchandising departments that divide music sales by
genre:
Rock - CD
Rap HipHop - CD
Country, Blues - CD
International - CD
Alternative - CD
These merchandising departments correspond to codes in the store's POS system.
Because stores plan their labor and schedule employees based, in part, on their CD sales in
general and not on the sale of one particular genre, all of these merchandising departments are
linked to one zone. This way, the sales data from any CD sale drives the labor budget for the
CD zone, which in turn gives managers more labor hours to spend in the CD zone when creating
schedules.
You can create as many merchandising departments to zone links as you need in Org Setup,
although typically you wouldn’t link one merchandising department to more than one zone. This
would result in the sales from that department being counted twice by Dayforce. Any number of
merchandising departments can link to a single zone, though.
Additionally, the same zone in different zone packages can be linked to different merchandising
departments. The links are specific to each zone package. Continuing the example above, in the
East Region zone package, the CD zone contains all of the CD merchandising departments.
However, in the Central Region zone package, the International - CD merchandising department
isn’t linked to the CD zone because stores in that region don’t carry any products from the
International - CD merchandising department.
To link merchandising departments to zones:
1. Go to Org Setup > Zones Configuration and click the Zone MDSE Department tab.
2. In the left side panel, select the zone package and zone you want to link to a merchandising
department.
3. The application shows zone packages and zones hierarchically. The top-level items in the
list are zone packages. Click a zone package to expand the list, and Dayforce shows the
zones linked to the zone package.
3. Select the Include checkboxes next to the merchandising departments that you want to link
to the selected zone.
4. Click Save.
Configure Locations
To create a location:

-- 427 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 428 of 0
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. In the Manage Locations drop-down list, click Add Locations to open the wizard.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description for the new location.
4. Enter the effective from date to specify when the location becomes a part of your
organization; locations can be added to your organization before they’re open.
5. Enter the opening date to specify when the location opens.
6. In the Ledger Code field, enter the code you want to represent the location in payroll
records. This code is used when Dayforce exports the payroll information; Dayforce tracks
the hours worked in each location and it represents where the labor cost of your
organization is being spent by using the ledger codes of each location.
7. In the Parent Location field, specify the org unit the location belongs to.
8. Click Next.
9. Select a zone package from the drop-down list. This creates org units based on selected
package’s template.
10. Click Next.
11. Click Finish.
12. Dayforce creates the location, adds it to the org unit you selected as the location's parent,
and then adds all of the departments linked to the zones you assigned to the location.
Note: While the wizard performs the bulk of the configuration, there is additional information to
define for new locations, as described below.
Finalize Location Configurations
To finalize location configurations:
1. Select the location in the organization hierarchy.
2. Click the Opening Date calendar icon and select the date the new location opens. By
default, Dayforce uses today’s date.
3. (Optional) Select when the location closes using the Closing Date calendar. By default, this
field is blank and the location will stay open until you edit the location and specify a closing
date.
4. Note: When you add locations to the organizational tree in Dayforce, it’s important to select
an appropriate opening and closing date, because Dayforce treats open locations
differently from closed locations.
4. (Optional) Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field.
5. Cross-reference codes are used to export data from Dayforce to other applications. See
Cross-Reference Codes.
5. Enter the code you want to represent the location on Dayforce clocks in the Clock Code
field.
6. Depending on your Dayforce configuration, the hardware clocks upon which employees
clock in and out for work can be used to record location transfers. Location transfers are
required when an employee spends time working outside of their primary location. The

-- 428 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 429 of 0
clock code is the number an employee types on the clock’s number pad when transferring
to that location.
6. Select what time zone the location is in from the Time Zone drop-down list. Dayforce might
use this information in Work > Time Clock (if available) to calculate the time employees are
clocking in or out, instead of relying on the time and time zone of their local machine.
7. Select which weekday is considered the start of the week, if it’s different for this location
than your organization’s default, in the Start Day of Week drop-down list.
If a value is specified, when users view information for the location, such as its timesheet or
schedule, Dayforce shows the week starting on the selected day. If blank, Dayforce uses
the default week start day for the location.
Note: When the Start Day of Week setting hasn't been specified in the org setup for a user’s
primary location, Dayforce uses the configuration specified in the First Day of Week setting
in Site Setup > Client.
8. Click Save.
Dayforce can track additional information as you add locations to your organizational tree in Org
Setup. With a location selected, you can:
Enter the location’s address: Click the Address tab and specify the location’s address in the
provided fields.
Note: These fields should be set for organizational units at the On-Site Department level if
minimum wage rates have been defined for the organization. See Minimum Wage
Configuration.
Enter the location’s contact information: Click the Contact tab and specify the location’s
contact information in the provided fields.
Dayforce also provides a history of changes made to the location (click the History tab to
view) and a chart of where the org unit sits in your organizational hierarchy (click the Chart tab to
view).
It also shows a summary of the employees assigned to work in and manage the location. Click the
Authority tab to review a list of employees assigned to manage the location. A location’s manager
is responsible for approving or denying any requests, such as time away from work requests,
made by employees working at that location. The list of employees assigned to work at a location
is shown when you click the Employee tab.
Edit the Organization
After your organizational hierarchy is configured in Dayforce, and the relevant jobs, zones, and
locations are added, you might need to edit the organization setup when changes occur to the
organization.

-- 429 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 430 of 0
This section describes how to edit the organization configuration to keep it current and ensure it
matches your organization's actual hierarchy. From Org Setup, you can:
Add Departments to a Location
Remove Departments from a Location
Edit Locations and Org Units
Add Departments to a Location
To add departments to a location:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and select the relevant location in the organizational
hierarchy.
2. Click Add.
3. In the General tab of the slide-out panel, enter a name and description for the new
department. By default, the department's parent org unit is set to your selected location.
4. Click the Effective From calendar icon and select when the department becomes a part of
the location.
5. If the department is only open in the store for a limited time, select when it is no longer a
part of the location from the Effective To calendar. By default, this field is blank and the new
department won’t be removed from your organizational chart in Dayforce unless you delete
it.
6. In the Level drop-down list, click Department.
7. In the Department drop-down list, select which department you want to add.
8. Dayforce shows the departments already configured in the Department drop-down list. See
Configure Departments.
8. In the Zone drop-down list, select which zone the department belongs to.
9. It’s important to select a zone that matches how zones are configured in Dayforce. See
Create Zones.
9. (Optional) In the Reference Code field, enter a cross-reference code. Cross-reference
codes are used to export data from Dayforce to other applications and must be unique
across all org units.
10. Important: Don’t use special characters such as hyphens in cross-reference codes. This
can cause in issue where employees are unable to record time in Work > Timesheet.
Dayforce validates the location reference code value against existing values and won’t let
you save duplicate values when you edit an existing location or create a location.
10. In the Ledger Code field, enter the code that you want to represent the location in payroll
records.
11. This code is used when Dayforce exports the payroll information; Dayforce tracks the hours
worked in each location and it represents where the labor cost of your organization is being
spent by using the ledger codes of each location.
11. In the Clock Code field, enter the code that you want to represent the location on clocks.

-- 430 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 431 of 0
16. Depending on your Dayforce configuration, the hardware clocks upon which employees
clock in and out for work on can be used to record location transfers. Location transfers are
required when an employee spends time working outside of their primary location. The
clock code is the number an employee types on the clock’s number pad when transferring
to that location.
12. Click Save.
Remove Departments from a Location
To remove departments from a location:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and select the relevant department from a location in the
organizational hierarchy.
2. Click Delete.
3. Click Save.
Edit Locations and Org Units
This section describes how to move or close locations or org units, such as regions or districts, in
your organizational hierarchy. You can move and close locations and org units that were
previously configured, as outlined below:
Move Locations and Org Units
Close Locations and Org Units
Close Location Validation
When you enter a date in the Effective To field in the Open and Close Location dialog box,
Dayforce uses validation which prevents you from end dating the organization when any of the
following situations apply:
The organization has open employee work assignments where the effective to date occurs
after the organization's effective to date.
The child organizations have open employee work assignments where the effective to date
occurs after the organization's effective to date.
Some organizations are scheduled to become children of the selected organization at a
future date (effective from is in the future). These organizations have open employee work
assignments with an effective to date that occurs after the selected organization's effective
to date.
In the validation error message, Dayforce shows the name of the org and its navigational path in
the org tree so that you can identify the org unit that’s causing the validation error. In addition to
the validation message, Dayforce shows an export button so that you can export the list of
validation messages.

-- 431 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 432 of 0
Move Locations and Org Units
To move locations or org units:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and select the relevant location in the organizational
hierarchy.
2. In the Manage Locations drop-down list, click Move Location.
3. Dayforce opens the Move Location dialog box.
3. Click the org icon to select a parent location.
4. Dayforce opens the dialog box for you to search for and select an organization.
4. Specify the effective from date.
5. Click Save.
Close Locations and Org Units
To close locations or org units:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and select the relevant location in the organizational
hierarchy.
2. In the Manage Locations drop-down list, click Open and Close Location.
3. Dayforce opens the Open and Close Location dialog box.
3. Specify the following dates, as necessary:
Opening Date
Closing Date
Effective To
4. Locations that are closed aren’t open for business, but Dayforce stores active records for
them. You can assign employees to closed locations in People, but they aren’t included in
the Dayforce planning and forecasting features.
5. Locations that have been end dated aren’t open for business, and Dayforce doesn’t store
active records for them. Employees can’t be assigned to them, and they aren’t shown in the
organizational hierarchy.
6. Both closed and end-dated org units (where these dates are in the past) aren’t shown in the
hierarchy when the Active/All switch is set to Active. They are both shown when the switch is
set to All.
4. Click Save.
Create Dockets
Dayforce uses dockets to track logged time against a quantity of produced work. Typically, this
quantity represents a number of “pieces” made in the docket, like the number of windshields
installed in a car assembly line. This information is helpful for paying employees bonuses or
premiums for their production. Dayforce can be configured to pay employees extra based on their
output. It multiplies the docket’s piece rate by the number of pieces an employee produced

-- 432 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 433 of 0
during their shift. Before employees can enter their time against a particular docket or work order,
you need to create the docket in Org Setup > Docket.
You can also configure and import dockets in Org Setup using CSV (comma-separated
values) files. The information can be quickly created or updated, using the Import and Export
functions. See Org Setup Import and Export Configuration.
Important:
The Ledger Code field in this task (see step 6) can be used only if Dayforce is configured to
use the Payroll features. When running as a standalone Workforce Management application,
Dayforce doesn’t use this field.
Dayforce supports only whole numbers in fields where employees specify their quantity of
completed docket pieces.
To create a docket:
1. Go to Org Setup > Docket and click Add.
2. Enter the name and, optionally, a description of the new docket.
3. In the Organization field, select which levels or locations the docket applies to.
4. In the Piece Rate field, enter the amount (in dollars) that employees are paid, over and
above their hourly rate, for completing each piece of work in the docket. You can specify a
decimal amount in this field to represent cents.
5. In the Clock Code field, enter a code to represent the docket on Dayforce clocks.
6. The hardware clocks which employees clock in and out on can be used to enter docket
transfers, which occur when an employee spends time working outside of their primary or
normal docket. The clock code is the number that an employee enters on the clock's
number pad when transferring to that docket.
6. In the Ledger Code field, enter the ledger account associated with this job so that Dayforce
associates the pay amounts for each job with the appropriate general ledger account. This
information can be exported with the Payroll GL Export background job.
7. (Optional) Enter a cross-reference code in the Reference Code field. This code must be
unique and must not contain special characters.
8. Click Save.
Define Comparable Locations
This section describes how to define comparable locations for some locations, typically newly
opened ones, to be used with forecasting; when configured, Dayforce uses actual historical data
from a location’s comparable location for a specified period of time when forecasting. Comparable
locations are configured in Org Setup > Organization.
Typically, comparable locations are used in forecasting for the times when locations don’t have
enough historical data to generate a forecast. A common example occurs when an organization

-- 433 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 434 of 0
opens a new location; this new location wouldn’t have enough historical data to base a forecast off
of, often for longer than the location’s first year.
The amount of historical data Dayforce needs at a location to generate a forecast depends on
how Dayforce forecasting is configured. For example, a forecast that uses a trend of historical
average where the past 8 weeks are compared to the same 8 weeks from last year needs 14
months' worth of historical data to properly generate a forecast.
In this example, the location needs to use historical data from its comparable location for the first
14 months it’s open; after that, Dayforce can examine the location’s own historical data to generate
the forecast.
Comparable locations can be specified for the overall location and for each zone within a location;
Dayforce can be configured so that different comparable location can be specified for each.
To configure comparable locations:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and select a location.
2. Click the Comparable Site tab.
3. Click Add.
4. Select the comparable location in the Location drop-down list.
5. Select options in the Source Zone and Target Zone drop-down lists.
6. Typically, each zone from one location is compared to the same zone in the comparable
location, but this isn’t required.
6. Enter a number that represents the expected deviation, in percentage, from the comparable
location's historical data in the Deviation (%) field.
7. With a value specified, Dayforce adjusts the comparable location's data values up or down
by the specified percentage; specify a positive or negative percentage value in the
Deviation (%) field and Dayforce adjusts the values accordingly.
8. For example, when configuring a comparable location that performed an estimated 15%
better than the new location, specify -15 in the Deviation (%) field and Dayforce reduces
the historical data from the comparable location by 15% before generating a forecast from
it.
7. Enter the effective date range of historical data that Dayforce uses in place of any historical
data that Dayforce has for the location, when generating forecasts. This date range doesn’t
define the forecasted dates during which Dayforce uses the comparable location’s historical
data; it defines the dates of the historical data that Dayforce uses.
8. For example, a new location opens June 1, 2011. When Dayforce generates a forecast for
this location in Plan, it examines the last eight weeks and compares it to the same eight
weeks from the previous year. Because the new location doesn’t have any actual results to
make this comparison, it uses a comparable location’s historical data. The time period of the
historical data it uses from the comparable location runs from April 6, 2010 to June 1, 2011.
9. On June 1, 2011, to generate a forecast, Dayforce needs historical data from the previous
eight weeks of last year; this dictates the April 6, 2010 start date. Because the location

-- 434 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 435 of 0
starts recording results starting June 1, 2011, any forecast that requires historical data from
June 1, 2011 or later can use the location’s actual historical data. As a result, the end date is
set to June 1, 2011.
8. Click Save.
Configure Temporary Site Closures
You can define periods where a site in your organization is temporarily closed in the Closures
subtab of the Organization tab in Org Setup > Organization. For example, if your organization is
temporarily closing a site to renovate, you can define the duration of the closure and Dayforce
marks the site as closed during those dates in some features.
Before You Begin: This functionality is available only for site-level org units. Further, the Closures
subtab is available only for users assigned access to the Location Property Values or Location
Type Values role features under Org Setup > Org Setup > Organization > Organization in the
Features tab of System Admin > Roles.
To configure a temporary site closure:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. Click the Organization tab. Dayforce shows your organizational hierarchy.
3. Expand the hierarchy and click a site name. Dayforce shows the site details in a slide-out
panel.
4. Click the Closures subtab.
5. Click Add.
6. Enter a name and description for the temporary closure.
7. Enter the effective date range for the closure.
8. If you’re configuring an open-ended closure, you don’t need to enter an end date.
8. Enter a reference code. This code must be unique and must not contain special characters.
9. (Optional) Repeat steps through 8 to add another temporary closure for the site.
10. Click Save.
Configure Compliance Properties for Sites
Before You Begin: The Compliance Properties tab is shown only for sites and is applicable only for
the United States.
You can provide or override some values for compliance properties that are used for reporting in
the Compliance Properties tab in Org Setup > Organization. For more information, see the
following topics in the HR Administration Guide:
For EEO-1, see Configure Establishment Details.
For VETS-4212, see Configure Hiring Locations.

-- 435 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 436 of 0
Configure Location Properties
Dayforce retains information or attributes about your organization’s locations for use in task
management and labor deployment. This information can be used by management to compare
locations. For example, in the Task Management and Task Setup > Task Templates features, you
can cater the budget of ad hoc tasks and task templates to suit the properties of your locations,
such as square footage. To do this, you’d create a “Size in Square Feet” location property.
After you configure the different attributes you want to track in Dayforce, you need to provide
values for each location, the process for which is also described below.
You can add as many location properties in Org Setup as your organization tracks.
To configure a location property:
1. Go to Org Setup > Locations and click the Location Properties tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and description for the location property.
4. In the Default Value field, enter the value Dayforce uses for the property, by default.
5. (Optional) Enter a reference code for the location property in the Reference Code field. This
code must be unique and must not contain special characters.
6. Click Save.
Configure Location Daily Properties
Location daily properties are similar to location properties in that they are measurable properties
of locations within an organization that can be created for specific locations and used with task
management and labor planning. They are helpful in situations where activity demand times vary
from location to location.
For example, location managers can use location daily properties in certain labor deployment
rules to allow the rule's start and end times to reference the location daily property. Managers
have access to all of the location daily properties for their locations and have the ability to change
the default values or create exceptions.
You can configure as many location daily properties in Org Setup as your organization tracks.
To configure a location daily property:
1. Go to Org Setup > Locations and click the Location Daily Properties tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description for the location daily property.
4. In the Data Type drop-down list, select a data type for the property:

-- 436 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 437 of 0
Time Range: Select this option to configure the property with a time range value. This
allows you to use the location daily property when configuring several labor
deployment rules in Plan Setup > Labor Deployment. See Labor Deployment
Rules.This also allows you to specify fixed or offset times when you add values to the
location daily property.
Numeric: Select this option to configure the property with a numerical value. If you are
tracking a productivity value for use with performance-based scheduling, you must
select a numeric value.
5. Select the Secured checkbox to restrict editing and access of this location daily property to
one store in the Location Daily Properties tab of Schedules.
6. Click Save.
Configure Location Daily Property Values
After you've defined the different location daily properties you want to track in Dayforce, you'll
need to provide values for each location daily property in the Location Daily Property Values tab.
Depending on the data type of the location daily property you configured, Dayforce shows a
different set of parameters. Consult the following procedures for defining numeric or time range
location daily properties based on your organization’s needs, as well as an example configuration:
Configure Numeric Location Daily Property Values
Configure Time Range Location Daily Property Values
Location Daily Property Value Example
Note: You can also import and export location daily property values in CSV format using the
Export and Import buttons.
Configure Numeric Location Daily Property Values
To configure a numeric location daily property value:
1. Go to the Location Daily Property Values tab in Org Setup > Locations:
2. Click Add.
3. In the Organization drop-down list, select the organization you want to add location daily
property values for.
4. In the Location Daily Property drop-down list, select the location daily property you want to
associate with the organization.
5. (Optional) Use the Effective Start and Effective End fields to specify when the location daily
property value is available.
6. Select the Default checkbox to configure the location daily property value as your default
value for the location daily property you specified earlier.
7. Click the arrow to expand the record. The application shows additional parameters:

-- 437 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 438 of 0
8.
9. Note: You cannot edit the values in the Day of the Week column.
8. In the Numeric Value field, enter how many of the selected properties are needed on the
selected day. For example, in the screenshot above, 3 tills are needed for Fridays and
Saturdays.
9. Select the Active checkbox to activate the property. To disable the property, clear the
checkbox.
10. Click Save.
Configure Time Range Location Daily Property Values
To configure a time range location daily property value:
1. Go to Org Setup > Locations.
2. Click the Location Daily Property Values tab and then click Add.
3. In the Organization drop-down list, select the organization you want to add location daily
property values for.
4. In the Location Daily Property drop-down list, select the location daily property you want to
associate with the organization.
5. Use the Effective Start field and, optionally, the Effective End field to specify when the
location daily property value is available.
6. Select the Default checkbox to configure the location daily property value as your default
value for the location daily property you specified earlier.
7. Click the arrow to expand the record and then complete the additional settings. The
following parameters are available in both the Start Time and End Time sections:
Fixed Time/Offset: Specify whether this property will use fixed times, offset times, or
whether to disable it by choosing one of the following options from this drop-down list:
Fixed: Select this option to use a fixed start or end time for this property.

-- 438 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 439 of 0
Offset: Select this option to use an offset start or end time for this property.
Offset times allow you to start an activity relative to a store's opening hours. For
example, in a large store, the baking activity might start three hours before the
store opens to customers. In a small store, the baking activity might start two
hours before the store opens to customers. Offsets allow you to configure your
location daily properties to meet these demands.
Disabled: Select this option to disable the start or end time of the property for
this day.
Start Time/End Time: If you selected Fixed in the Fixed Time/Offset drop-down list,
enter the time the property starts in the Start Time field and, optionally, enter the time
the property ends in the End Time field.
Offset (minutes): If you selected Offset in the Fixed Time/Offset drop-down list, enter
the number of minutes to offset the property here. For example, enter 30 to have the
property start or end 30 minutes before or after opening or closing.
Before/After: If you selected Offset in the Fixed Time/Offset drop-down list, select
Before or After depending on whether the offset will be before or after the value in the
Start Basis column.
Start Basis: If you selected Offset in the Fixed Time/Offset drop-down list, select Close
or Open.
8. Click Save.
Location Daily Property Value Example
On Wednesdays, you want the baking activity to begin an hour and a half before the store opens,
and end an hour and a half before it closes. As such, you update the Bakeoff 2 property for
Wednesday as follows:
1. In Org Setup > Locations, in the Location Daily Property Values tab, select the location daily
property whose value you want to modify. Dayforce expands the record and shows
additional configuration settings:
2.
2. In the Day of the Week column, click Wed.
3. In the Start Time section, do the following:
In the Fixed Time/Offset drop-down list, select Offset.

-- 439 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 440 of 0
In the Offset (minutes) field, enter 90.
In the Before/After drop-down list, select Before.
In the Start Basis drop-down list, select Open.
4. In the End Time section, do the following:
In the Fixed Time/Offset drop-down list, select Offset.
In the Offset (minutes) field, enter 90.
In the Before/After drop-down list, select Before.
In the Start Basis drop-down list, select Close.
5. Click Save.
The Wednesday configuration of the Bakeoff 2 location daily property should appear as follows:
Record Location Property Values
For each location in your organization, you need to specify its values for the various location
properties and attributes being tracked in Dayforce.
To record location property values:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and, in the Organization tab, select the relevant location.
2. Click the Location subtab.
3. The application shows any location property values already recorded for the selected
location in the Property Values section.
3. Click Add.
4. Select the relevant property in the Property drop-down list.
5. The application shows the property's description and default value (if any).
5. If the location property has an effective date range, meaning the value is only valid during a
specified time period, define that date range using the Effective From and Effective To
fields.
6. Enter values in the Value field.
7. Select the Is Filter checkbox next to the location properties you want configured as filter
options. Managers can only filter information in Dayforce based on the location properties

-- 440 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 441 of 0
configured if the Is Filter checkbox is selected.
8. Click Save.
Configure Location Types
This topic describes the optional configuration of location types for sites in the organizational
hierarchy. A location type can represent any physical area in a location, such as different stations
in an assembly line, desks, booths, or ticket windows. After configuration, managers can schedule
employees to work in physical locations in their location by assigning a location type to their shifts.
For example, employees working on assembly lines need to be scheduled to specific stations on
their line. Although Dayforce tracks the different lines with existing functionality, each assembly
line is configured as a zone, each with its own labor demand. This functionality allows
organizations to specify more granular information, such that the body assembly line has eight
different stations.
To configure location types:
1. Go to Org Setup > Locations and click the Location Types tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and description of the location type.
4. The location type’s name is shown in Schedules when users schedule employees to that
location.
4. (Optional) In the Reference Code field, enter a cross-reference code. This code must be
unique and must not contain special characters.
5. Click Save.
After you configure location types, you must assign them to locations in Org Setup > Organization,
in the Location subtab.
To assign location types:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization and click the Organization tab.
2. Select the relevant location. A slide-out panel opens.
3. Note: You can assign location types only to locations with Site selected in the Level drop-
down list in the General subtab of the Organization tab in Org Setup > Organization.
3. Click the Location subtab.
4. In the Location Type drop-down list, select the location types you want to assign to the
location.
5. Click Save.
When assigned, the location type drop-down list appears in Schedules when you add or edit
shifts. The location of this drop-down list varies, depending on which view you use in Schedules:
Bar View: Shift details slide-out panel.

-- 441 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 442 of 0
Grid View: Add Schedule or Edit Schedule dialog boxes:
If employees are scheduled to a location type, it’s shown in Schedules and in schedule reports:
The location type is also shown during the shift trading process. This allows you to see where in
the site a shift is located before you accept it. The Location Type column appears in the following
panels in Work > Calendar:
Offer shift to everyone
Offer shift to a coworker
Revoke shift trade
Shift Trades
Swap shifts with a coworker
View shift details
View shift trade history
Configure User-Defined Labor Metrics
User-defined labor metric fields appear throughout Dayforce and can be used to add specific
work details on timesheets and schedules for the purpose of labor tracking in your organization.
Role feature access:
Org Setup > Labor Metrics > Labor Metric Codes
Org Setup > Labor Metrics > Labor Metric Types
For example, you can create a set of labor metric codes to track information such as PO#, Client
ID, or Job Title. You can configure a number of different labor metric types and codes to meet

-- 442 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 443 of 0
your organization’s needs.
Configuring user-defined labor metrics involves the following tasks:
1. Configure Labor Metric Types
2. Configure Labor Metric Codes
After you configure labor metric types and codes, you can do the following:
Labor Metrics
Configure Default Labor Metrics in the HR Administration Guide
Configure Labor Metrics for Shift Rotations
Configure Labor Metric Types
Labor metric types are groups of similar labor metric codes in Dayforce. These labor metric types
are available throughout Dayforce in drop-down lists from which you can select specific labor
metric codes. The following screenshot of the Labor Metric Types tab in Org Setup > Labor
Metrics shows three labor metric types set up:
When you configure user-defined labor metric types in Org Setup > Labor Metrics, you have to
include a reference code in the Reference Code field in the Labor Metric Types tab for the labor
metrics info to appear in the Employee Preview slide-out panel in the GL Preview tab and on
earning statements.
To configure a labor metric type:
1. Go to Org Setup > Labor Metrics and click the Labor Metrics Types tab.
2. Click Add.
3. In the Name field, enter a descriptive name.
4. In the Reference Code field, enter a reference code. This code must be unique and must
not contain special characters.
5. (Optional) Enter a description and clock code in the corresponding fields.
6. In the Icon field, select an icon in the drop-down list (if you don’t select an icon, Dayforce
shows a blue book icon on the timesheet):

-- 443 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 444 of 0
7. Click Save.
To remove a labor metric type from the list, select it and then click Delete. If a labor metric type
has multiple labor metric codes associated with it, you must delete them first. Also, if the labor
metric type is included in a time entry policy or default labor, you must remove the reference prior
to deletion.
To create a copy of an existing labor metric type, select the type in the list and then click Copy.
Configure Labor Metric Codes
After you configure a labor metric type, you can configure associated codes that can be selected
to track work details for a particular shift.
Any labor metric types configured in the Labor Metrics Types tab of Org Setup > Labor Metrics
appear as subtabs in the Labor Metric Codes tab. For example, in the following screenshot, you
can see the labor metric types Department, PO #, and Training as subtabs in the Labor Metrics
Codes tab:

-- 444 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 445 of 0
Important: When creating user-defined labor metric codes, you must include the reference code
and ledger code in the Reference Code and Ledger Code fields so that the labor metrics
information appears in the Employee Preview slide-out panel in the GL Preview tab and on
employee earning statements.
To configure a user-defined labor metric code:
1. Go to Org Setup > Labor Metrics and click the Labor Metrics Codes tab.
2. Select an org level in the left-side panel.
3. Select one of the labor metric type tabs shown at the top of the screen.
4. Click Add.
5. Enter a name, a cross-reference code, and a ledger code. Cross-reference codes must be
unique and must not contain special characters.
6. (Optional) Enter a description and a clock code.
7. Enter an effective from date and, optionally, an effective end date.
8. Click Save.
You can select a code and click Delete to remove it from the labor metric type. However, if the
code has already been applied to shifts in Dayforce, these references must be removed before
you can delete the code.
To create a copy of an existing labor metric code, select the code and then click Copy.
Job Assignment Qualifications
Job assignment qualifications are the links that you can create between a job assignment and its
required skills and certifications. This allows you to ensure that certain job assignments are
performed by employees with specific skills or qualifications. You can also assign locations as a
qualifier for assigning skills or certifications.
You create job assignment qualifications in Org Setup > Job Assignment Qualifications:
Add Skill Requirements for Job Assignments
Add Certification Requirements for Job Assignment
Dayforce uses associations between job assignments and skills or certifications when determining
qualification for some schedule rules that run in Schedule Setup > Schedule Rule Policy. See
Position Certification Rule and Position Skill Rule.
Add Skill Requirements for Job Assignments
To create a skill requirement for a job assignment:
1. Go to Org Setup > Job Assignment Qualifications and open the Skills tab.
2. Click Add.

-- 445 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 446 of 0
3. In the Job Assignment drop-down list, select the job assignment that you want to add a skill
requirement to.
4. In the Locations drop-down list, specify the locations where the job assignment and skill
association is required.
5. In the Skills drop-down list, select the skills that you want to link to the selected job
assignment.
6. (Optional) In the Skill Level drop-down list, select the skill’s level that you want to link to the
selected job assignment.
7. Click Save.
Add Certification Requirements for Job Assignment
To create a certification requirement for a job assignment:
1. Go to Org Setup > Job Assignment Qualifications and open the Certifications tab.
2. Click Add.
3. In the Job Assignment drop-down list, select the job assignment that you want to add a
certification requirement to.
4. In the Locations drop-down list, specify the locations where the job assignment and
certification association is required.
5. In the Certifications drop-down list, select the certifications that you want to link to the
selected job assignment.
6. Click Save.
Add Authority Types
Authority types are used with roles to further define authority levels in an organization. You can
review and add authority types in Org Setup > Authority Type. Dayforce shows the following
system authority types: Approve Pay Rate Change, Manager, Performance Admin, and
Succession Admin.
To add an authority type:
1. Go to Org Setup > Authority Type and click Add.
2. Enter a name, description, and cross-reference code.
3. Click Save.
Configure Pay Approval Structure
The way in which managers select pay details to review, lock, and approve in Pay Approve
Checklist and Pay Admin Checklist can be based on organizational units, managers, or a mix of
both (where some employees are grouped and approved by the location where they work and
others are grouped based on their manager). Dayforce can be configured so that approvals are
performed per organizational unit, such as a location manager approving pay for all of the

-- 446 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 447 of 0
employees in the location they manage, but also per manager for some locations, such as head
office, where the pay in head office isn’t approved at once, by one user. Rather, the employees
are split between their different managers so that, for example, the VP of marketing approves pay
for all of their employees and the VP of accounting approves pay for theirs.
This section describes how to complete this configuration.
Configuring how employees are grouped (by their location or their manager) for pay approval
involves selecting or clearing the Approve By Manager checkbox in the General tab for a selected
site in the Organization tab in Org Setup > Organization.
When the Approve By Manager checkbox is selected for a site, Dayforce groups employees in the
same pay group working for the same manager, and pay for each manager’s employees is
approved at once.
When the checkbox is cleared, Dayforce groups employees in the same pay group working at
that location, and pay for the entire location is approved at once.
Dayforce distinguishes how the pay approval is structured in both checklists:
In the preceding screenshot, two approvals are shown in Pay Approve Checklist: one, for the
Cloverleaf location, is grouped by location, and the other, for Ted, is grouped by manager.
Approving pay for Cloverleaf approves all of the employees working at that location that belong to
the Default Pay Group. Approving pay for Ted approves all of the employees working at the
Cranberry location who have Ted as their manager.
Similarly, for Pay Admin Checklist, Dayforce shows one record per pay group for organizational
units grouped by location. For locations with Approve By Manager selected, Dayforce shows one
record for each manager with employees in that location, per pay group.
Dayforce Functionality Matrix
This topic provides a table containing a breakdown of what functionality is used or available in
each app mode configured for an instance of Dayforce:
App Mode 0: WFM
App Mode 1: Payroll
App Mode 2: WFM and Payroll

-- 447 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 448 of 0
Functionality marked No for an app mode is either unavailable, or isn’t used in Dayforce. Often,
the field, tab, button, or feature listed in the Functionality column isn’t visible in Dayforce and
cannot be made available through the user interface by changing client properties, assigning new
role features, or access authorizations.
In other cases, the functionality listed is available, or can be viewed, in all app modes, such as the
Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity feature, but only the app modes marked with Yes in
the table use the functionality. For example, the Legal Entity role feature can be active, so that the
tab is visible in Dayforce, and users with role access can create new legal entities in the tab.
However, this information isn’t used by other areas of Dayforce; the corresponding role features, if
any, shouldn’t be enabled if Dayforce is in an app mode that doesn’t use the functionality.
Functionality matrix
Functionality
Used in App
Mode 0
(WFM)
Used in App
Mode 1
(Payroll)
Used in App
Mode 2 (Payroll
and WFM)
Payroll > Archived Reports tab 	No 	Yes 	Yes
The Refresh Employee Taxes button
displayed in the Organization tab in Org
Setup
No 	Yes 	Yes
The Export Legal Entity Taxes button
displayed in Org Setup > Org Payroll
Setup > Legal Entity
No 	Yes 	Yes
The Payroll Card Account drop-down list
in the General tab of the org unit details
slide-out panel for a selected org unit (in
Org Setup > Organization, in the
Organization tab)
No 	Yes 	Yes
Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal
Entity feature No 	Yes 	Yes
The Payroll > Pay Run Management
feature No 	Yes 	Yes
Require WFM approval to lock a payrun
in Payroll > Pay Run Management? N/A 	No 	Yes
The Year End feature 	No 	Yes 	Yes
The Credit Journal Number and Identifier
fields in the Payroll Properties tab of Pay
Setup > Pay Group
No 	Yes 	Yes
The Pay Transmission section of fields in
the Pay Group Properties tab of Pay

-- 448 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 449 of 0
Setup > Pay Group 	Yes No Yes
The Net Pay Setup section of fields in the Payroll Properties tab of Pay Setup
> Pay Group No Yes Yes
The Direct Deposit section of fields in the Pay Group Properties tab of Pay Setup
> Pay Group No Yes Yes
The Approve By Date and Transmit By Date columns in the Pay Calendars tab
of Pay Setup > Pay Group Yes No Yes
The Transmit Options drop-down list in Pay Admin Checklist 	Yes No Yes
In the Offcycle Pay Export Wizard (launched in Pay Admin Checklist), the Select
a pay group drop-down list in the Select Offcycle Type stage, as well as the
ability to link the off cycle export to a new or existing off cycle pay run
No Yes Yes
The Labor % field in the Work > Work Assignments screen of People 	No Yes Yes
The Ledger Code field in HR Admin > Pay Class 	No Yes Yes
The Auto Pay Payroll checkbox and Ledger Code field in HR Admin > Pay Type No Yes Yes
The Ledger Code in any project's details in Projects 	No Yes Yes
The Ledger Code field in Org Setup > Docket 	No Yes Yes
The Workers Comp section in any job's details in Org Setup > Jobs and Job
Assignments No Yes Yes
The Print Current Accrued on Payroll, Print Current Taken on Payroll, and Print
Current Balance on Payroll checkboxes and the Print Label field in the Balances
tab of Pay Setup > Balances
No Yes Yes
The Pay Group Admin Access tab of System Admin > User 	No Yes Yes
The Bank Holiday checkbox in Pay Setup > Pay Holidays 	No Yes Yes
The Payroll Setup feature 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Check Templates 	No Yes Yes
The Earnings tab of Payroll Setup > Earnings and Deductions. 	No Yes Yes
The Deductions tab of Payroll Setup > Earnings and Deductions 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Groupings 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Deferred Comp and Pension Plans 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Payroll Taxes 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Payroll Policies 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Third Party Payees 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Bank Accounts 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Payroll Tax Form Mapping 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Third Party Sick Pay Providers 	No Yes Yes
Payroll Setup > Report Output 	No Yes Yes
System Admin > Payroll Void Pay Runs 	No Yes Yes

-- 449 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 450 of 0
The Payroll section in the Properties tab of System Admin > Client Properties 	No Yes Yes
The Allow Payroll Card as Pay Method checkbox in the Employee section of the
Properties tab of System Admin > Client Properties No Yes Yes
The tax locator functionality initiated after an address change in the Addresses
section of Personal > Contact Information in People No Yes Yes
The Payroll Policy (Net Pay) drop-down list in the Employment Status tab of the
Employment > Employment Settings screen in People No Yes Yes
The Payroll > Direct Deposit screen of People 	No Yes Yes
The Payroll > Payroll Elections screen of People 	No Yes Yes
The Payroll > Tax Definitions screen of People 	No Yes Yes
The Statements > Earning Statements screen in People 	Yes Yes Yes
The Payroll > Garnishments screen in People 	No Yes Yes
The Country drop-down list in the Payroll Properties tab in Pay Setup > Pay
Group No Yes Yes
The Payroll Mapping tab of Pay Setup > Pay Group 	No Yes Yes
The Delivery Packages tab of Pay Setup > Pay Group 	No Yes Yes
The ESS Earning Statement Canada and ESS Earning Statement US options in
the Image Type drop-down list in the Images tab of Site Setup > Client No Yes Yes

-- 450 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 451 of 0
Jobs and Job Assignments Configuration
In Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can add or import the jobs and job assignments
that can be worked in your organization so that employees can be staffed appropriately.
This feature contains the Jobs and Job Assignments tab, where most configuration takes place,
and several other tabs for creating additional values that can be associated with jobs and job
assignments.
See also:
Jobs and Job Assignments Background
Jobs and Job Assignments Configuration Overview
Initial Configuration for Jobs and Job Assignments
Jobs and Job Assignments Tab Overview
Create Jobs
Create Job Assignments
Org Setup Import and Export Configuration
Pay Grade Configuration
Workers Comp Setup
Jobs and Job Assignments Background
In Dayforce, jobs, job assignments, and departments are key values that are defined as follows:
Job: A general set of duties that employees are eligible to perform such as Analyst, Director,
Coordinator, and Manager.
Job Assignment: A specific instance of a job that is tied to a department.
Department: A generic area that can exist across your organization, like Finance, Marketing,
Sales, and HR. See Departments Overview.
Jobs, job assignments, and departments form a hierarchy where a job is a template for a set of
job assignments under it that are each tied to a department.
For example, the Clerk job can contain the Meat Clerk, Produce Clerk, and Seafood Clerk job
assignments, which are assigned to the Meat, Produce, and Seafood departments. This hierarchy
is represented in the left sidebar in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab:

-- 451 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 452 of 0
Departments Overview
In Dayforce, there is a distinction between departments and the on-site department level org units
that are part of an organizational hierarchy.
Department: A department represents the area that needs a job to be done. A department
can represent a function (Finance, Sales), an area of responsibility (Production Line), or
even a virtual area (Union Duties).
On-Site Department: An on-site department is made up of a site and a department that are
configured in Dayforce. For example, New York (site) + Packaging (department) = New
York Packaging (on-site department).
Departments are configured in the Departments tab in Org Setup > Organization, and on-site
departments are configured in the Organization tab of Org Setup > Organization.
Job assignments and org units can both be assigned a department. A department creates a link
between job assignments and the org units where a job assignment can be worked. A job
assignment can only be worked in org units that have the same department assigned.
For job assignments, the department is assigned in the Department drop-down list of the
Assignments section in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab in Org Setup > Jobs and Job
Assignments. In this example, the Produce Clerk job assignment is assigned to the Produce
department:
For org units, the department is assigned in the Department drop-down list of the General tab in
the Organization tab of Org Setup > Organization. In this example, the Produce department is
assigned to the Store 320 - Produce org unit:

-- 452 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 453 of 0
Continuing this example, the Produce Clerk job assignment can be worked at the Store 320 -
Produce org unit because both the job assignment and the org unit are assigned the Produce
department. The job assignment can also be worked at other org units that have the Produce
department selected.
Job Assignments in Work Assignments Overview
Work assignments are a combination of the job assignment and the org unit where an employee
works. They are used in various areas of Dayforce such as scheduling and payroll.
After you configure jobs and job assignments, you can use work assignments to assign job
assignments to employees. You can add a work assignment to an employee's profile through the
following methods:
A form (such as the New Hire form)
Directly in the Work > Work Assignments screen of People
By importing
In this example, an employee's work assignment has Nursing Lead Nurse selected as the job
assignment and the Sunny Valley - Nursing department-level org unit as the location:

-- 453 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 454 of 0
Management by Job Assignment Overview
As an optional feature, you can configure management by job assignment to define an
employee's manager based on their primary job assignment, such as an employee working a
Sales Associate job assignment that is managed by an employee working the Sales Manager job
assignment.
Job assignment management is configured in the Headcount Allocations subsection of the
Assignments section of a job assignment's details in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab of Org
Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments. When you create a headcount allocation record in this
section, you need to select a job assignment in the Managing Job Assignments drop-down list.
Job assignment management needs to be configured for individual locations. To define job
assignment hierarchy for a job assignment that is associated with multiple locations, you must
configure a separate headcount allocation record for each location. Also, the work assignment of
the manager and employee being managed must be at the same org unit.
Management by job assignment is optional, and the configuration can be used in addition to the
other management hierarchy configurations. When multiple configurations are used, Dayforce
sets the following order of precedence to determine employee management:
1. Direct management
2. Job assignment management
3. Derived by org
Note: You can run the Employee Manager Recalc background job to keep management
assignments by job assignment up to date. In the Org Units setting of the background job's
parameters, you must select the specific location of the headcount allocation record.
Example
In the Headcount Allocations section of the Sales Associate job assignment, you create a
headcount allocation for the Toronto site. For this record, you select Sales Manager in the

-- 454 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 455 of 0
Managing Job Assignments drop-down list.
Stacey Jacobs works the Sales Manager job assignment at the Toronto - Sales onsite department
of the Toronto site. Also at the Toronto - Sales department of this site, Michael Collins works the
Sales Associate job assignment. As such, Stacy is automatically Michael's manager based on her
job assignment.
In the Managers section of the Work > Management Assignments screen of Michael's profile in
People, Stacy is shown as his manager. Also, the Derivation Method column of the record shows
Job Assignment and is read-only:
See Work > Management Assignments in the HR Administration Guide.
Jobs and Job Assignments Configuration Overview
Before you configure jobs and job assignments, you need to complete the following prerequisites:
Create the org units in your organizational hierarchy where employees can work. This is
done in the Organization tab in Org Setup > Organization. See Configure Organizational
Groups and Subgroups.
Create the generic departments that can be worked across your organization. See
Configure Departments.
In Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, configuration involves the following process:
Creating values that can be associated with jobs and job assignments, such as job families
and job functions. Configuring these values is optional but can be useful for reporting and
tracking. While it is a best practice to create these values before you start creating jobs and
job assignments, you can still configure them afterward as needed. See Initial Configuration
for Jobs and Job Assignments.
Adding or importing jobs and job assignments in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab. For
more information, see the following:
Jobs and Job Assignments Tab Overview
Create Jobs
Create Job Assignments
Org Setup Import and Export Configuration
Configuring pay grades that can be assigned to jobs. See Pay Grade Configuration.

-- 455 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 456 of 0
Creating workers comp codes and defining which jobs they are associated with. See
Workers Comp Setup.
Initial Configuration for Jobs and Job Assignments
Initial configuration in Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments involves creating job families, job
functions, position terms, and employment indicators.
Create Job Families
In the Job Families tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can create values that are
used to group a set of similar jobs in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab and for reporting
purposes. For example, you can create the Retail job family for the Clerk, Receiving, and Cashier
jobs. Creating job families is optional but useful for managing a large number of jobs.
To add a job family:
1. Go to Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments and click the Job Families tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description.
4. Enter a value in the Reference Code field. Reference codes are used to export data to other
applications. These codes must be unique and must not contain special characters.
5. Click Save.
Create Job Functions
In the Job Functions tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can create values that
are used to broadly describe the purpose of a job, such as Administrative or Customer Service.
Creating job functions is useful for tracking and reporting on jobs.
Note: Configuring one or more job functions is required if your organization uses, or plans to use,
the eQuest external job board integration for Recruiting.
To create a job function:
1. Go to Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments and click the Job Functions tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description in the corresponding fields.
4. Enter a value in the Reference Code field. Reference codes are used to export data to other
applications. These codes must be unique and must not contain special characters.
5. Click Save.
Create Position Terms

-- 456 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 457 of 0
In the Position Term tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can create values that
are used to track the intended duration of a position such as Episodic or Fixed. Dayforce comes
with the system Regular position term and you can create additional ones as needed. Creating
position terms is optional but useful for tracking and reporting on positions.
You can also import position terms instead of manually adding them. See Org Setup Import and
Export Configuration.
To create a position term:
1. Go to Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments and click the Position Term tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description in the corresponding fields.
4. Enter a value in the Reference Code field. Reference codes are used to export data to other
applications. These codes must be unique and must not contain special characters.
5. Click Save.
Create Employment Indicators
In the Employment Indicator tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can create
values that are used to categorize employees into different groups that track the type of work
associated with a job assignment. For example, the job assignment could be an apprenticeship or
internship depending on how your organization structures it.
Dayforce comes with the system Seasonal employment indicator and you can create additional
ones as needed. Creating employment indicators is optional but useful for tracking and reporting
on job assignments.
You can also import employment indicators instead of manually adding them. See Org Setup
Import and Export Configuration.
To create an employment indicator:
1. Go to Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments and click the Employment Indicator tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and, optionally, a description.
4. Enter a value in the Reference Code field. Reference codes are used to export data to other
applications. These codes must be unique and must not contain special characters.
5. In the Country drop-down list, select one or more countries that the employment indicator is
available for. If you leave this drop-down list cleared, the employment indicator is available
regardless of country. See Configure Countries for Employment Indicators.
6. Click Save.
Configure Countries for Employment Indicators

-- 457 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 458 of 0
You can configure employment indicators to be available based on the country that employees
operate in. This is configured by selecting one or more countries in the Country column of the
Employment Indicator tab in Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments. This column is cleared by
default. If you leave this column cleared, the employment indicator is available regardless of
country.
This functionality is enforced in the following areas:
In the job assignment details of the Jobs and Job Assignments tab in Org Setup > Jobs and
Job Assignments. If an option is selected in the Pay Group drop-down list of the job
assignment details, the Employment Indicator drop-down list shows employment indicators
that are assigned the same country as the selected pay group and employment indicators
that don’t have a country assigned. Employment indicators that are assigned a country that
doesn’t match the employee’s assigned pay group aren’t shown.
In the following areas where employee details can be updated:
The Work > Work Assignments screen in People.
Self-service forms, including the Job Assignment and Compensation Change and Job
Assignment Change forms.
The Edit wizard opened from the People List screen of People.
In each area, the Employment Indicator drop-down list shows employment indicators that
are assigned the same country as the employee's assigned pay group and employment
indicators that don’t have a country assigned. Employment indicators that are assigned a
country that doesn’t match the employee’s assigned pay group aren’t shown.
Note: Country assignment for employment indicators isn’t enforced in the HR Import or HR Data
Config import.
If a job assignment or employee isn’t assigned a pay group, the Employment Indicator drop-down
list in each area shows only employment indicators that don’t have countries configured.
Also, Dayforce shows a validation error message if you change the pay group assigned to the job
assignment or employee to one where the employment indicator that has already been selected
isn’t configured.
Jobs and Job Assignments Tab Overview
In the Jobs and Job Assignments tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can add or
import jobs and job assignments. The left sidebar shows a tree of job families, jobs, job
assignments, and departments. When you select a job or job assignment, Dayforce shows its
details in the remainder of the screen:

-- 458 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 459 of 0
At the highest level of the tree are job families, which you can create in the Job Families tab of Org
Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments. Dayforce shows the number of jobs that each job family
contains next to each job family name. Jobs that don’t have a job family assigned are listed under
the system No Job Family entry.
You can click a job family to view its jobs. Each job shows the number of job assignments that it
contains. When you click a job, each of its job assignments are shown along with their associated
departments:
Items in each level of the tree are listed alphabetically.
In the search field at the top of the sidebar, you can enter all or part of a job or job assignment
name and press Enter to filter the list. The search returns results for job families, jobs, job
assignments, and the department assigned to job assignments.

-- 459 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 460 of 0
If a search result is returned for a job assignment or department, the job and job family above it
are also shown, even if they don’t match your search results. This is because job assignments are
never shown without their parent job and job family (or the No Job Family entry if a job isn’t
assigned to a job family).
In this example, if you search "deli," the job and job family of the Deli Clerk job assignment are
also shown, even though they don’t contain the word "deli":
Conversely, if your search matches a job but not any job assignments under it, only the jobs are
shown.
Other notes:
Only active jobs and job assignments are shown in the sidebar by default, but you can click
All at the top of the list to include end-dated or future-dated ones as well.
You can click the collapse icon ( ) at the top-right of the sidebar to hide it from the screen.
At the top of the details for a selected job or job assignment, Dayforce shows information
about when the record was created and last modified and by whom.
Create Jobs
You can create jobs in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job
Assignments.
You can also import jobs instead of manually adding them. See Org Setup Import and Export
Configuration.
To create a job:
1. Go to Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments and click the Jobs and Job Assignments
tab.
2. In the left sidebar, select the job family that you want to add the job to and click Add > Add
Job. If you don’t have job families configured, the job is added under the No Job Family
entry.

-- 460 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 461 of 0
Note: You can assign a job family or change the job family after creating the job. There is a
Job Family drop-down list in the job's details.
3. Complete the fields. See Job Settings.
4. Click Save.
Job Settings
Job details in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments are
divided into the following sections:
General
Additional Job Details
Job Description
Job Qualifications
Workers Comp
Before You Begin: Depending on how Dayforce is configured and the country that Dayforce is
being used for, some settings might not be shown.
Job settings
Setting 	Description
General
Name 	The job name.
Reference Code
The cross-reference code for the job. Reference codes are used to
export data to other applications. These codes must be unique and
must not contain special characters.
Effective From
The date that the job is available in Dayforce. This field can’t be edited
after you save the job. Job assignments added under this job must
have effective dates on or after this date.
Effective To
The date that the job is no longer available in Dayforce. The Effective
To field of a job is only enabled if there are no job assignments under a
job or all of the job assignments are already end-dated. In these
cases, the Effective To field is read-only. You can't add job
assignments to a job that has an end date.
Ledger Code
The ledger code for the job. This functionality is applicable only for
organizations that use the Payroll module. Dayforce can associate the
pay amounts for each job with the appropriate general ledger account
and this information can be exported with the Payroll GL Export
background job.

-- 461 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 462 of 0
Additional Job Details
Pay Grade
The job’s pay grade. Pay grades describe the ranges of pay employees should
earn for working job assignments under this job. See Pay Grade Configuration.
Note: This setting isn’t shown if the Pay Grade - Use Job Factor Point System
client property is enabled in the General section of the Properties tab in System
Admin > Client Properties.
Job Family The job family that this job belongs to. If you don’t select a job family, the job is
listed under No Job Family in the sidebar. See Create Job Families.
Job Field 1 Additional information about the job. These fields are supported by the
HR Import, HR Export, and Reporting. Depending on your organization's
requirements, these fields might have been given different names than what is
shown here.
Job Field 2
Job Field 3
Rank
The job's placement in lists and reports, with the highest-ranking jobs listed first.
For example, when managers print their location's schedule, they can sort the
schedule by job rank. Jobs without a rank are placed below jobs with ranks
when Dayforce sorts jobs by rank.
Job
Function
The job’s function. Functions are used to broadly describe the purpose of a job
and are used for record-keeping purposes. See Create Job Functions.
Union Job When selected, indicates that the job is associated with a union.
Union
The union that the job is associated with, if applicable. Unions are configured in
HR Admin > Unions.
This setting doesn’t control employee union membership in forms or the
employee record. You can use data mapping rules to enforce which union is
assigned to employees based on their job. See Employee Data Mapping Rules
Setup in the HR Administration Guide.
EEO-1 Job
Category
(US only) The job’s EEO-1 job category. The list of options is predefined and is
used for EEO-1 compliance reporting.
EEO-4 Job
Category
(US only) The job’s EEO-4 job category. The list of options is predefined and is
used for EEO-4 compliance reporting.
FLSA
Status
(US only) Indicates whether employees who work the job are eligible to receive
overtime under the US Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). The available options
are Exempt and Non-Exempt.
Note: Selecting a value doesn’t affect job scheduling. This setting is used to
track the FLSA status associated with the job so that users can decide whether

-- 462 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 463 of 0
to pay overtime when employees earn it. It doesn’t determine overtime
eligibility or payments for employees that work the job.
WSDRF Job
Classification
(Quebec only) The WSDRF job classification. The list of options is predefined
and is used for ACT-90 WSDRF reporting.
NOC 	(Canada only) The National Occupation Classification (NOC) code.
KldB Job
Classification
(Germany only) The German KldB job classification code. The list of options
is predefined and is used for compliance reporting.
SOC
Occupational
Code
(US only) The job’s Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) code. When
an SOC code is assigned to a job, Dayforce reports the data using the
current pay check work assignment of each employee. SOC codes are
included in quarter end payroll processing to be sent to the US Bureau of
Labor Statistics. SOC reporting is required for some, but not all, US states
and territories. For information, see https://www.bls.gov/soc/.
The SOC code can be overridden at the individual employee level in People,
in the Payroll > Tax Definitions screen, in the Quarterly/Annual Reporting
Parameters section. See US Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters in the
Payroll Administrator Guide.
Job
Description
Text editor for defining the job description. You can also add images, media,
and links here.
Job
Qualifications
Text editor for defining the job qualifications. You can also add images,
media, and links here.
Workers Comp
Read-only section that shows the workers’ compensation codes that are
configured for the job. The following columns are shown:
Workers Comp Class Code
Name
State/Province
See Workers Comp Setup.
Create Job Assignments
After you create a job, you can create job assignments for the job. Job assignments can’t be
created without a job existing first. See Create Jobs.
You can also import job assignments instead of manually adding them. See Org Setup Import and
Export Configuration.

-- 463 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 464 of 0
To create a job assignment:
1. Go to Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments and click the Jobs and Job Assignments
tab.
2. In the left sidebar, expand the job family that contains the job that you want to add the job
assignment to. Jobs without a job family are listed below No Job Family.
3. Select the job that you want to add the job assignment to and, in the toolstrip, click Add >
Add Job Assignment.
4. Complete the fields. See Job Assignment Settings.
5. Click Save.
Job Assignment Settings
Job assignment details are divided into the following sections and subsections:
General
Skills
Assignments
Headcount Allocations (a subsection of the Assignments section)
Compensation Details
Additional Details
Job Assignment Description
Before You Begin: Depending on configuration and the country that Dayforce is being used for,
some settings might not be shown.
Job assignment settings
Setting 	Description
General
Name 	The job assignment name.
Description A description of the job. For example, additional identifiers like cost center or
department.
Effective From
The date at which the job assignment is available to assign to employees, for
example, in the Job Assignment field of the New Hire form. The current date
is selected by default. The date you enter can’t be earlier than the effective
date of the job that it is under. After you save the job assignment, this field
can no longer be edited.
Effective To The date at which the job assignment is no longer available to assign to
employees.

-- 464 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 465 of 0
Reference
Code
A cross-reference code for the job assignment. Reference codes are used to
export data to other applications. These codes must be unique and must not
contain special characters.
Position
Term
One or more position terms to include only employees with those terms.
Position terms are configured in the Position Term tab of Org Setup > Jobs and
Job Assignments. This selection is populated when users select this job
assignment in the Job Requisition form, but users filling out the form can still
change the selection. See Create Position Terms.
Ledger
Code
The ledger code for the job assignment. This functionality is applicable only for
organizations that use the Payroll module. Dayforce can associate the pay
amounts for each job assignment with the appropriate general ledger account
and this information can be exported with the Payroll GL Export task.
Clock Code
The numerical code that represents the job assignment on clocks. Depending
on configuration, the hardware clocks that employees use to clock in and out
for work can be used to enter job transfers, which are when an employee
spends time working outside of their primary job assignment. The clock code is
the number that an employee enters on the clock's number pad when
transferring to that job assignment.
Skills
Note: This service uses the ESCO classification of the European Commission. Custom skills
and proficiency levels aren’t supported.
If your organization uses the Career Explorer feature, a list of skills is automatically populated
for each job assignment based on the job assignment title, job assignment description (if
available) or job-level description, and any existing job posting details. For new job
assignments, these skills are populated automatically after you click Save. However, it might
take some time for the skills to be shown. You can update, add, or delete the populated
skills, as needed. You can also refresh the populated skills by clicking Refresh skills in the
Skills section.
Skill Name A skill that's required for the job assignment.
Expected
proficiency The proficiency level that employees in the role are expected to have.
Assignments

-- 465 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 466 of 0
Department
The generic department value, such as Sales or Produce, where the job
assignment is worked. See Departments Overview.
Note: For a job assignment to be worked at an org unit, that org unit must also
be included in the headcount allocations. This is defined in the Headcount
Allocations subsection, which is described in the next row.
Headcount
Allocations
Required subsection that includes a list for creating headcount allocations,
which are used with the Department drop-down list of the job assignment
settings to define which org units a job assignment can be worked in. You
must create at least one headcount allocation record. In these records you can
define the applicable org units, the effective start and end date of the
allocation, and other details.
Note: Only active headcount allocations are shown in the list by default, but
you can click All at the top right of the list to include end-dated or future-dated
allocations as well.
Location
The org unit. When you select an org unit, the job assignment can be worked
at that location and all locations below it in the organizational hierarchy. For
example, you can select the location at the top of your organizational hierarchy
to make the job assignment available at all of your organization's locations.
Note: For a job assignment to be worked at an org unit, the org unit and job
assignment must have the same department defined. Job assignments are
assigned a department in the Department drop-down list.
Effective
From
The date at which the job assignment is available to assign to employees at
the locations below it.
Effective To The date at which the job assignment is no longer available to assign to
employees at the locations below it.
Budget
The number of employees that should be assigned to the job assignment. If
the Limit Work Assignments by Budget client property in the General section of
the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties is enabled, and the limit
entered in the Budget field is reached for the location, the job assignment isn’t
available to assign to the employee in the following areas:

-- 466 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 467 of 0
Custom and system XML forms that have the Location and Job
Assignments fields.
The Work > Work Assignments screen in the People feature.
For example, if a job assignment’s limit is reached for the location that you
select in the Location and Job Assignment section of the New Hire form, that
job assignment isn’t available to select.
Actual Shows the number of active employees that have this job assignment in their
primary work assignment.
Actual
(Secondary
Only)
Shows the number of active employees that have the job assignment as their
secondary work assignment.
Managing Job
Assignments
The job assignment that configures the management by job assignment
functionality. Employees who are assigned the job assignment you’re
configuring as their primary job assignment will report to the managing job
assignment.
Note: Job assignment management is determined by location. To define job
assignment hierarchy for a job assignment that is used at multiple locations,
each location must be configured individually. See Ma