o the document you created. The
API hostname will be the same, but the other keys will be unique. You’ll need these
keys to set up Dayforce.
e. Leave all settings at their default values and click Save Changes.
Important: The keys you have stored in the document you created are sensitive. They should be
treated like passwords and stored securely.
Enable Two-Factor Authentication in Dayforce
Two-factor authorization is enabled at the password policy level so it can be turned on for only
some users. After you generate the necessary Duo Security keys, you can enable two-factor
authentication in Dayforce.
To enable two-factor authentication in Dayforce:
1. Go to System Admin > Password Policy and click the Two Factor Authentication tab.
2. Copy and paste the keys that you generated in Duo into the appropriate fields:
3. Note: The keys shown below are samples only.

-- 293 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 294 of 0
4.
5. Adding these keys integrates Dayforce with the organization's Duo account. This task only
needs to be performed once.
3. Click Test keys to validate the keys.
4. Select Enable DUO Universal Prompt for a more simplified and modern authentication
experience. For more information on Duo's universal prompt, see the following URL:
https://guide.duo.com/universal-enrollment.
5. Important: Selecting this checkbox ensures the DUO service is not interrupted as the
provider transitions to its latest functionality and begins deprecating older screens.
5. Click Save.
6. Click the Password Policy tab.
7. Select the password policy you want to enable two-factor authentication for.
8. In the Two Factor Authentication section, select the Require Two Factors checkbox.
9. In the same section, select one of the following options in the Two Factor Failure Mode drop-
down list:
Select the Open option and, in the rare case where the TFA provider isn’t accessible,
users will still be able to login with just their user name and password.
Select Closed option and if the provider isn’t accessible, users will not be able to log
in until the provider becomes accessible again.
10. Note: To control network traffic, Dayforce pings Duo once every five minutes and then
caches that result. This means a five-minute lag could occur before Dayforce knowing that
Duo's availability has changed. If Duo becomes unavailable after a successful ping but
before verifying a user's device, the user will be unable to log in as if the Closed option were
selected.
10. Click Save.
User Experience Using Two-Factor Authentication
When users log in for the first time using TFA, they have to complete a self-enrollment process,
which is provided by Duo and their Web SDK. Duo enrollment and authentication can be
completed They have both a "traditional" and "universal" enrollment module. You can choose
which one to use with the configuration settings in your Duo account. The main differences
between the "traditional" and "universal" enrollment modules are that the "universal" process is
designed to be more streamlined and involve fewer steps.
The process is embedded in the user interface of Dayforce so that users don’t have to log in to
Duo separately:

-- 294 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 295 of 0
Note: The account name (shown as "Dayforce" in the preceding screenshot) can be configured in
the Duo administration site. You can also further brand it with your organization's logo.
For users, the enrollment process involves choosing which type of device to enroll: a mobile
phone, tablet, or landline phone, security key, or touch ID. Enrollment can also be done using the
mobile app. When a user is enrolled in TFA, they’re enrolled for all versions of Dayforce. For more
information on the Duo self-enrollment process, see the documentation at the following URL:
https://guide.duo.com/traditional-enrollment
After they have enrolled, users are presented with the TFA process when they log in, which they
complete with their device:

-- 295 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 296 of 0
After authenticating, users are logged in to Dayforce.
Reset or Remove Users in Duo Security
In some situations, you will need to reset or remove a user from the Duo system. These situations
can include users who have left your organization and users who have changed devices and
need to enroll again. For most of these cases, you need to log in to the Duo Security
administration portal and perform these actions in the Users area.
Users with TFA enabled in their password policy are automatically deleted from Duo Security in
the following scenarios:
An administrator manually deletes the user in System Admin > User.
The employee is updated as terminated during HR import.
The User Account Employee Status Job sets the user to 'unapproved' (that is, it clears the
Approved checkbox in System Admin > User).
Note: Manually clearing the Approved checkbox in System Admin > User will not delete the
user from DUO Security
Dayforce doesn't automatically delete terminated users from Duo Security if they are assigned to a
termination role, because in this case they are still set to ‘approved’ in System Admin > User.
Manage Your Direct Deposit Accounts
You can add, edit, delete, or adjust the pay order of your direct deposit accounts in My Profile by
tapping Edit and then tapping Edit Direct Deposit.

-- 296 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 297 of 0
Note: This functionality is currently available for employees in the United States, Canada,
Australia, Mauritius, the United Kingdom, and New Zealand.
Add or Edit Your Direct Deposit Accounts
To add or edit your direct deposit accounts:
1. In My Profile, tap Edit and then tap Edit Direct Deposit.
2. Tap the account you want to edit, or tap Add an Account to add a new one.
3. The app displays the Deposit Account screen for editing, or the Add Account screen for you
to enter your new account Information. The app validates the information you enter in the
fields and automatically populates some of the information depending on your country.
3. In the Account Type section, select Dayforce Card, Checking, or Savings.
4. In the Account Information section, enter the account number, branch number, institution
number, and the name of the financial institution.
5. Select any of the following options in the Deposit Type section:
Remainder/Full Amount: Dayforce distributes all of your pay to this account.
Monetary Amount: Dayforce distributes the specified monetary amount to this
account. If you select this option, the app displays the Amount field for you to enter
the dollar amount.
Percentage: Dayforce distributes the specified percentage amount to this account. If
you select this option, the app displays the Amount field for you to enter the
percentage amount.
6. If you need to provide supporting documents, tap Add Document in the
Additional Documents section and then tap Choose File to upload a digital document, Photo
Library to select a photo from your device, or Take Photo to take a new photo using your
device's camera.
7. If required, tap to agree to the terms and conditions.
8. Tap Done. The app displays an Edited tag next to the account you added or edited.
9. Tap Submit to confirm the change. If your change requires approval, you will not be able to
make any other changes to your direct deposit accounts until it is approved.
Delete Your Direct Deposit Accounts
To delete your direct deposit accounts:
1. In My Profile, tap the Edit icon and then tap Edit Direct Deposit.
2. Tap the account you want to delete.
3. Scroll to the bottom of the account information and then tap Delete.
4. Tap Delete to confirm, or tap Cancel to keep the account.
Adjust the Order of Your Direct Deposit Accounts

-- 297 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 298 of 0
If you have multiple direct deposit accounts, you can configure their order so that your pay goes
into certain accounts first.
To adjust the pay order:
1. In My Profile, tap the Edit icon and then tap Edit Direct Deposit.
2. Tap Adjust Pay Order.
3. Tap and hold the Adjust icon next to the account you want to adjust, and drag it into the
desired position.
4. Tap Done. The app displays an Edited tag next to any accounts affected by the adjustment.
5. Tap Submit Changes. If your change requires approval, you will not be able to make any
other changes to your direct deposit accounts until it is approved.
Add a Document to Your Direct Deposit Accounts
You can upload documents to your existing direct deposit accounts to verify your account details.
To upload a document:
1. In My Profile, tap Edit and then tap Edit Direct Deposit.
2. Tap the account you want to upload a document for.
3. In the Deposit Account screen, tap Add Document.
4. Tap any of the following options:
Choose File: Select a file on your device.
Photo Library: Select an existing photo from your device's photo library.
Take Photo: Take a new photo using your device's camera.
5. If required, tap to agree to the terms and conditions.
To remove an uploaded document, tap the X next to the document under the
Additional Documents section in the Deposit Account screen.
Multifactor Authentication
With Dayforce multifactor authentication (MFA) enabled for your organization, users must verify
their identity by first entering their user name and password and then entering a time-based one-
time code that they receive by text message or voice call. This provides an extra layer of security
for user logins, and it can help protect against credential theft and fraudulent behavior in
Dayforce.
MFA needs to be enabled and configured for your organization by an administrator. After it has
been set up, users are prompted to enter their MFA contact information the next time they log in.
You can find more information on how to set up and use MFA in the following topics:
Configure Multifactor Authentication for Your Organization
First-Time Login with Dayforce Multifactor Authentication

-- 298 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 299 of 0
Log in to Dayforce Using the Text Message or Voice Call Authentication Method
Update Your Multifactor Authentication Contact Information
Configure Multifactor Authentication for Your Organization
As an administrator, you can enable MFA for the users in your organization to provide an extra
layer of security. MFA is enabled in System Admin > Multifactor Authentication.
Role feature access: System Admin > System Admin > Multifactor Authentication
> MFA Configuration
Note: Dayforce MFA overrides DUO two-factor authentication settings. If you have DUO two-factor
authentication and you enable MFA, DUO security will no longer be applied to users who are
subject to MFA.
MFA configuration options
Option 	Description
When multiple policies
apply to a user, which
setting should be used to
determine the
appropriate policy?
Select one of the options to specify how the appropriate policy
should be determined when multiple policies apply to a user. The
first option ensures that the user is always required to use the most
secure policy available. The second option ensures that the policy
associated with the user's default role is implemented.
Enable daily MFA
registration reminder
notifications
Toggle the switch to enable or disable reminders for users who
have not registered and are subject to MFA. Reminders will be
sent based on the allowed notification channels and the user's
notification preferences.
Maximum number of
reminder notifications
Enter a number in this field to specify the maximum number of
reminder notifications sent to users. Reminders will be sent daily
based on the allowed notification channels in the user's notification
preferences. You can enter a value between 1 and 999 in this
field. The default value is 15.
Enabled
Toggle the switch to enable or disable MFA. After you enable it,
users are prompted to enter their MFA contact information the first
time they log in. MFA is only enabled for users who log in using
native authentication. If your organization has single sign-on users,
this setting doesn't change their log in process because MFA can't
be used together with single sign-on.
Default policy 	Select the checkbox and choose the default user policy when no
specific policy is identified for a user because

-- 299 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 300 of 0
multiple policies apply. This option is enabled by default.
Allow users to access
Dayforcewhen MFA
provider is unavailable
Select the checkbox to allow users to log in to Dayforce using
only their user name and password in the event that the MFA
provider isn’t available. This option is enabled by default.
Allow VOIP phone
numbers
Select the checkbox and users will be able to use a voice over
internet protocol (VOIP) phone number to receive the verification
code. This option is enabled by default.
Allowed identity
verification methods
Select the identity verification options that users in this policy can
use. At least one identity verification method is required in each
enabled policy. Changes will not be applied to previously
registered users until they change their MFA preferences or are
forced to re-register. By default, the allowed options are:
SMS/Voice Call: Users can set up MFA using their mobile
device. A 6-digit code will be sent to their mobile device
through either a text message or a voice call.
Authenticator App: Users can set up MFA using an
authenticator application of their choice.
Email: Users can set up MFA using a valid email address of
their choice.
Days to remember users
Enter a number in this field to allow users to log in without going
through identity verification for the specified number of days after
the last successful identity verification. For example, if you enter
2, users aren't prompted for 2 days after they successfully verify
their identification.
The maximum number of days you can enter is 30. If you enter 0,
this option isn’t enabled, and users have to verify their identity
every time they log in to Dayforce. The default value is 14 days.

-- 300 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 301 of 0
Dayforce MFA uses the same account locking process that is applied to failed
login attempts. The number of minutes for which the user’s account will be
locked is configured in the password policy associated with the user. If this
setting is 0, the user’s account must be manually unlocked in the System
Admin > User screen to allow them to log in to Dayforce again.
Unable to
sign
in/Lockout
text
Enter a message in the text field to display to users who are unable to sign in
using MFA or who have reached the maximum number of verification attempts.
Roles
Users with any of the selected roles will be required to verify their identity
using MFA. For users with multiple roles, if any one of their roles is selected
here, they will be required to use MFA to log in to Dayforce.
Manage Multifactor Authentication Users
As an administrator, you can manage MFA users in your organization in the User Management tab
in System Admin > Multifactor Authentication.
Role feature access:
System Admin > System Admin > Multifactor Authentication > MFA Configuration
System Admin > System Admin > Multifactor Authentication > User Management
To manage MFA users:
1. Go to System Admin > Multifactor Authentication and click the User Management tab.
2. Enter a search term to the filter fields and select a comparison operator to apply.
3. Note: You can also enter a user's login ID in the First Name field to refine the returned
results. Also, special characters can't be entered in the Phone Number field.
3. Click Apply Filter.
4. In the list, select the checkbox beside the users that you want to manage.
5. In the Reset MFA drop-down list, select the action that you want to perform:
Reset Primary Phone: Remove the user's primary number. If the selected user has
provided a secondary number, the secondary number becomes the user's primary
number. Phone numbers that are recorded in the user's employee record aren't
modified when you update their phone numbers in the MFA feature.
Reset Secondary Phone: Remove the user's secondary number.
Reset Authenticator App: Remove the user's authenticator app registration. If the
user's authenticator app registration is reset, they need to re-register with their
authenticator app to continue to authenticate using it.

-- 301 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 302 of 0
Reset All MFA Registration: Remove all MFA registration details associated with the
selected user. This includes the user's primary and secondary number as well as their
Authenticator App registration.
6. The list is updates to show the results of the action that you performed on the selected
users.
7. Note: If a user's first name is unavailable, Dayforce shows the user's login ID. If the user's
login ID is unavailable, Dayforce shows the term "Non-employee" in the Name field.
Exclude Users from Multifactor Authentication
You can temporarily exclude individual users from multifactor authentication (MFA). This
functionality can be used in situations where a user can't use MFA for some reason. For example,
you might use this feature if an employee is traveling overseas without access to their usual MFA
phone, or if a user's MFA account isn’t working but they have a business need to log in to
Dayforce right away.
Role feature access: System Admin > User > Maintain Multifactor Authentication Exclusions
You exclude users from MFA in System Admin > User, in the Multifactor Authentication tab:
To temporarily exclude a user from MFA:
1. Go to System Admin > User and select the user that you want to exclude from MFA.
2. In the Multifactor Authentication tab, select a date in the Exclude from MFA Through field.
3. Click Save.
After you complete the steps above, the user can log in to Dayforce using only their user name
and password until the specified date. After that date, they will again be required to use MFA.
MFA Exemption by IP Address

-- 302 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 303 of 0
This section describes how to exempt users by IP address from being required to authenticate
using multifactor authentication (MFA). This functionality gives you the ability to define a range of
trusted IP addresses that aren't required to authenticate using MFA when logging in to Dayforce.
Before You Begin: You must be a system admin user to exempt users by IP address from being
required to authenticate using Multifactor authentication (MFA) when they log in to Dayforce. Your
system admin role must also have access to the System Admin > Multifactor Authentication role
feature in the Features tab in System Admin > Roles.
When a user logs in to Dayforce using their login credentials and their user account is configured
to use to MFA, Dayforce checks their IP address against the list of enabled rules. If the IP address
is listed, the user is logged in to Dayforce without requiring them to pass a second factor
authenticator. If the IP address isn’t listed in the enabled rules, Dayforce prompts the user to
authenticate using MFA after correctly entering their login credentials.
To define the range of IP addresses that aren't required to authenticate using MFA:
Important: The range of IP addresses must be entered in ascending order. An error message is
shown in Dayforce if you enter a range of IP addresses in descending order.
1. Go to System Admin > Multifactor Authentication.
2. Click Add in the IP Address Exceptions section of the MFA Configuration tab.
3. Enter a description for the rule you are creating in the Description column.
4. Enter the lower IP address in the range in the Lower IP Address Range column.
5. Enter the higher IP address in the range in the Upper IP Address Range column.
6. Note: To allow a specific address, rather than a range of addresses, enter the same IP
address in both the Lower IP Address Range and Upper IP Address Range columns.
6. Select the Rule Enabled checkbox to enable the rule. Optionally, you can clear the Rule
Enabled checkbox to disable the rule.
7. Note: To enable or disable multiple rules at the same time, select or clear the checkbox
beside a rule and then select an option in the Enable/Disable drop-down list.
7. Click Save.
Delete MFA Exemption Rules
Users that log in to Dayforce using an IP address that is exempt from authenticating using MFA
can log in to Dayforce with just their login credentials. When you delete an MFA exemption rule in
Dayforce, the impacted user or users are required to successfully authenticate themselves using
two-factor authentication when they log in to Dayforce. This includes their login credentials and a
second factor authenticator such as, a SMS text message or a voice call containing a 6-digit code
that must be entered into Dayforce when logging in to Dayforce.
Before You Begin: You must be a system admin user to delete Multifactor Authentication (MFA)
exemption rules in Dayforce. Your system admin role must also have access to the System Admin

-- 303 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 304 of 0
> Multifactor Authentication role feature in the Features tab in System Admin > Roles.
Deleted rules can't be restored. You must recreate the rule in Dayforce if you need to use the rule
again. For your convenience, you can disable a rule, rather than delete it. For more information
about enabling and disabling rules, see MFA Exemption by IP Address.
To delete MFA exemption rules:
1. Go to System Admin > Multifactor Authentication.
2. Select the rules you want to delete from the list of rules in the IP Address Exceptions section
of the MFA Configuration tab.
3. Click Delete.
4. Click Save.
First-Time Login with Dayforce Multifactor Authentication
Multifactor authentication (MFA) adds an extra layer of security by requesting a code along with
your user name and password. This code changes every time you log in and is only valid for a
short time after it's generated. After your organization enables Dayforce MFA for your user role,
you need to set up MFA the next time you log in.
Before You Begin: An administrator must enable MFA for your organization. See Configure
Multifactor Authentication for Your Organization.
To log in with Dayforce Multifactor Authentication for the first time:
1. Go to your organization's Dayforce login screen and enter your login information.
2. In the Multifactor Authentication Setup screen, select an authentication method to use when
logging in:
SMS Text Message or Voice Call: Set up MFA using your mobile device. A 6-digit
code will be sent to your mobile device through either a text message or a voice call.
This code is used to verify your identity when you log in to Dayforce.
Authenticator App Code: Set up MFA using an authentication app of your choice. A
time-based one-time password will be generated by your authentication app that you
use to log in to Dayforce.
Email: Set up MFA using an email address of your choice. A time-based one-time
password will be sent to your email that you use to log in to Dayforce.
Note: If you choose to receive the verification code by text message, you’ll receive the
text message in the language according to your culture setting in Dayforce. If the
language in your culture settings isn’t supported, Dayforce sends the SMS message
in English (US).
3. Click Next.
To continue the log-in process, see the following steps and procedures defined for the
authentication method that you selected:

-- 304 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 305 of 0
If you selected SMS Text Message or Voice Call, see Set Up Multifactor Authentication Using
the SMS Text Message or Voice Call Option.
If you selected Authenticator App Code, see Set Up Multifactor Authentication Using the
Authenticator App Option.
If you selected Email, see Set Up Multifactor Authentication Using the Email Option.
Set Up Multifactor Authentication Using the SMS Text Message or Voice Call Option
After selecting SMS Text Message or Voice Call in the Multifactor Authentication Setup dialog box,
you're prompted to set up your contact information to receive verification codes by text message
or voice call.
Note: SMS text messages are sent in the language specified by your culture settings in Dayforce.
If the language specified in your culture settings isn’t supported, Dayforce sends the SMS
message in English (US).
To log in to Dayforce and set up your account for MFA using SMS text message or voice call
authentication:
1. In the Contact Information dialog box, select your country and enter the primary phone
number where you want to receive the code each time you log in.
2. (Optional) Select the Add Secondary Number checkbox to include a back-up phone
number.
3. Click Continue.
4. Select Text Message or Voice Call to indicate how you want to receive the code to verify
your primary number.
5. Enter the verification code that you received and click Next. If you didn't receive a code,
click Resend Verification Code via SMS or Receive Verification Code via Voice Call to try
again.
6. Note: If you selected the Add Secondary Number checkbox when setting up your contact
information, you will be prompted to enter and verify the secondary number.
6. Click Continue to log in to Dayforce
Set Up Multifactor Authentication Using the Authenticator App Option
After selecting Authenticator App Code in the Set up Multifactor Authentication screen, you are
prompted to set up the authenticator. This option lets you receive time-based one-time verification
codes through the authenticator app instead of text messages or voice calls.
To log in to Dayforce and set up your account for MFA using an authenticator application:
1. Download an authenticator application of your choice.
2. Log in to Dayforce.

-- 305 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 306 of 0
3. In the Set up Multifactor Authentication screen, select Authenticator App Code and
click Continue.
4. In the Set up Authenticator screen, select a method to create an account in your
authenticator app:
Method 1: Secret Key and Account: Manually enter the secret key and account name
shown on the screen into your authenticator app.
Method 2: QR Code: Use your authenticator app to scan the QR code shown on the
screen. This will start the process to configure the app with the necessary information.
5. Click Continue.
6. Open your authenticator app and find the time-based one-time verification code that
corresponds with Dayforce.
7. In the Verify Authenticator app code screen, enter the verification code.
8. Click Continue to log in to Dayforce.
Set Up Multifactor Authentication Using the Email Option
After selecting Email in the Set up Multifactor Authentication screen, you are prompted to set up
the authenticator. This option lets you receive time-based one-time verification codes to a valid
email address of your choice.
To log in to Dayforce and set up your account for MFA using email:
1. Log in to Dayforce.
2. In the Set up Multifactor Authentication screen, select Email and click Continue.
3. In the Contact Information screen, enter your email address. Click Continue.
4. Open your email and find the time-based one-time verification code from Dayforce.
5. In the Enter Verification Code screen, enter the verification code. Click Continue.
6. In the confirmation screen, click Continue to log in to Dayforce.
Log in to Dayforce Using the Text Message or Voice Call Authentication
Method
After you log in for the first time using MFA and set up your account, you need to provide a code
in addition to your user name and password when you log in to Dayforce. Depending on how MFA
is configured for your organization, you might have to enter a code every time, or you might be
able to enter a code once every few days.
Before You Begin: The following instructions assume that you have already logged in using
multifactor authentication (MFA) and set up your account. First time login and account setup have
additional steps. See First-Time Login with Dayforce Multifactor Authentication.
To log in to Dayforce using MFA:
1. Open Dayforce and log in.

-- 306 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 307 of 0
2. Select text message or voice call to indicate how you will receive the code and click
Continue. A verification code is sent to the number you used when you set up MFA.
3. Enter the verification code and click Login. If you don’t receive a code, click Log in another
way to try again.
Log in to Dayforce Using an Authenticator App
After you log in for the first time using MFA and set up your account, you need to provide a code
in addition to your user name and password when you log in to Dayforce. Depending on how MFA
is configured for your organization, you might have to enter a code every time, or you might be
able to enter a code once every few days.
To log in to Dayforce using MFA:
1. Open Dayforce and log in.
2. Open your authenticator app and find the time-based one-time verification code that
corresponds with Dayforce.
3. Enter the verification code and click Login.
Log in to Dayforce Using Email
After MFA is set up on your account, you need to provide a code in addition to your user name
and password when you log in to Dayforce. Depending on how MFA is configured for your
organization, you might have to enter a code every time, or once every few days.
To log in to Dayforce using MFA:
1. Open Dayforce and log in.
2. Open the email you used when you set up MFA and find the time-based one-time
verification code that corresponds with Dayforce.
3. Enter the verification code and click Login.
Update Your Multifactor Authentication Contact Information
- New Profile user interface -
This topic explains how to manage your linked devices with the new Profile user interface. If you
have the original user interface, see Update Your Multifactor Authentication Contact Information in
the Employee Guide.
If you have a new phone number, you need to update your multifactor authentication (MFA)
contact information so that Dayforce can send the verification code to the right place the next time
that you log in.
Role feature access: Profile > Profile Menu > Settings > Security > Multifactor Authentication

-- 307 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 308 of 0
In Profile, you can update your MFA contact information in Settings > Security, in the Multifactor
Authentication section.
Note: Your MFA contact information is stored separately from your other Dayforce contact
information. Even if you’ve updated your contact details in Dayforce, you need to also update your
MFA contact details.
To update your MFA contact information:
1. Log in to Dayforce. To log in using MFA, you will need your previous phone number or
secondary phone number.
2. Go to Profile and click Settings > Security.
3. In the Multifactor Authentication section, click Edit.
4. In the dialog box that opens, follow the prompts to update your MFA contact information.
IP Network Restrictions
Before You Begin: Your user role must be assigned access to the System Admin > IP Network
Restrictions feature in the Features tab of System Admin > Roles.
System Admin > IP Network Restrictions has two main sections: the first is a list of IP Network
Restrictions, and the second is a list of IP address ranges for the selected restriction. Further,
there are two main entries in the IP Network Restrictions list: the first contains your organization’s
namespace (in the following examples, Test Org), and System:
<your instance namespace>: Named after your organization. Lists any IP Restrictions that
you or another authorized user have created.
<user-created IP Restriction>: A specific IP Restriction that you create,
name, and configure for one or more user available from those set up in System
Admin > Roles.
System: Lists the default, system-level restriction types. You can configure a specific
IP address or a range of address by adding rules in the bottom panel, but you can’t create
new system level restriction types. The system-level restriction types can’t be set for specific
roles.
Clock Entry: Restricts clock entries for physical clocks and soft clocks only. These
restrictions don’t apply to clock entries from the Dayforce Mobile app.
Dayforce Service: Restrictions applied to external applications interacting with
Dayforce through web services.
The following screenshot shows each of these IP network restriction types, with roles to which they
apply for the user-defined restriction types, with examples of a range that is allowed and a range
that is denied:

-- 308 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 309 of 0
The ranges that you configure in the IP Network Restrictions tab must adhere to the following
rules:
If you specify an IP address range that has an access type of Deny, must explicitly specify
a range that has an access type of Allow.
Specified IP address ranges can’t overlap.
If your user ID has more than one role type, and one or more of those role types doesn’t fall within
an explicitly allowed IP network restriction range, you will be able to log in only as the role type or
types that do fall within an allowed range, while the other roles remain locked, as illustrated in the
following screenshot:
Add an IP Network Restriction
To add a user-defined IP network restriction:

-- 309 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 310 of 0
1. Go to System Admin > IP Network Restrictions.
2. Click Add. The Add New IP Network Restriction dialog box opens.
3. Enter a name and description for the IP restriction type.
4. In the Client IP Restriction Type drop-down list, click Web Application Login.
5. In the Roles drop-down list, select one or more roles that you want to add to the
IP restriction type.
6. Click Confirm.
7. In the section below the list of IP restriction types, click Add and complete the following:
a. Select the Rule Enabled checkbox.
b. Add a Lower IP Address Range and an Upper IP Address Range.
c. Ensure that Allow is selected for at least one access type.
d. (Optional) Enter a description and a service provider.
8. Click Save.
To edit an existing user-defined IP network restriction, click the hyperlinked name to open the Edit
IP Network Restriction dialog box.
To edit the IP address range of an existing user-defined or system IP network restriction, select the
entry in the list of IP network restrictions and then select the range in the corresponding list below
the restriction.
Password Policy UI
Before You Begin: Your user role must be assigned access to the System Admin > Password
Policy feature and subfeatures in the Features tab of System Admin > Roles.
The System Admin > Password Policy feature has two tabs: Password Policy and Two Factor
Authentication.
The Password Policy Tab
You can view the password policy tab in System Admin > Password Policy.
The Password Policy tab contains a table of password policy entries that you can expand. One
password policy must be marked as Is Default Policy.

-- 310 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 311 of 0
When you expand a password policy, you can see the settings that you can set for the password
policy.
The settings are grouped under main sections. Many of the fields have additional information
available as tooltips, which you can view by hovering over the blue circle to the right of the field,
as illustrated here:
In the Default Values section, the Default Password For Employees and Default PIN fields both
have a selector icon (three horizontal bars):

-- 311 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 312 of 0
Click the selector icon to open the Password Tokens dialog box. You can then select one or more
tokens for the template that Dayforce uses to create default passwords for users:
You can only select one token at a time, but you can string multiple tokens together by clicking the
selector control, clicking a token, and then clicking Select.
The selector icon for the Default PIN field behaves in the same way.
The Two Factor Authentication Tab
You can view two factor authentication information in System Admin > Password Policy, in the Two
Factor Authentication tab.
Restrict Clock Entries by IP Address

-- 312 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 313 of 0
You can restrict clock entries by IP address, which allows you to ensure that employees can’t
perform clock entries from outside of a physical work location. This functionality doesn’t restrict
access to Dayforce from these locations. It only restricts whether the user can clock in or out for
work.
Role feature access: System Admin > IP Network Restrictions
When an employee clocks in or out, Dayforce checks their IP address against the list of allowed
addresses. If the IP address is allowed, Dayforce accepts the clock entry. If the IP address
doesn’t fall within one of the allowable ranges, Dayforce denies the IP address and rejects the
clock entry.
Even though clocks outside of the specified allowable ranges are rejected, you can also specify
IP addresses to deny in cases where an IP address or a range of IP addresses is problematic (for
example, an attacker).
To set which IP addresses are allowed or denied:
1. Go to System Admin > IP Network Restrictions.
2. In the list in the top half of the screen, select the Clock Entry option. Dayforce shows any
existing rules for clock entries in the bottom half of the screen.
3. Note: The Clock Entry option is a system option that is automatically available in System
Admin > IP Network Restrictions.
3. In the bottom half of the screen, click Add.
4. Enter the lowest IP address in the range in the Lower IP Address Range field.
5. Enter the highest IP address in the range in the Upper IP Address Range field.
6. Note: To allow or deny a specific address, rather than a range of addresses, enter the same
number in both the Lower IP Address Range and Upper IP Address Range fields.
6. Select Allow or Deny in the Access drop-down list, depending on whether you want the
specified address or range of addresses to be allowed or denied.
7. Verify that the Rule Enabled checkbox is selected.
8. Click Save.
Note: You must also select the Network Location Validation checkbox in the applicable time entry
policies. For more information about configuring time entry policies, see Time Entry Policies. As
well, you must ensure that Network Location Validation is enabled in System Admin > Clocking
Sequence Validation. For more information about clock entry validations, see Configure Clock
Entry Validations.
Restrict Dayforce Web Services by IP Address
To provide an additional layer of secure access to data, you can restrict the IP address (that is, the
network location) from which Dayforce Web Services can be accessed.

-- 313 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 314 of 0
Role feature access: System Admin > IP Network Restrictions
Dayforce Web Services are a set of application interface features that provide organizations with
near real-time communication between the Dayforce application and their internal systems. Some
programming (software development) effort is required on behalf of organizations that want to use
these features. See the Dayforce Web Services Introduction Guide.
The ability to define IP Network Restrictions is an optional feature that your organization can use to
provide an additional layer of secured access to data and limit malicious parties from overloading
application resources. With this feature, you can restrict access to your organization's Dayforce
Web Services so that only applications originating from your organization's specific hosting
environment can use access and use them.
The Dayforce Service option is a system option that is automatically available in System Admin
> IP Network Restrictions.
To define which IP addresses are allowed or denied:
1. Go to System Admin > IP Network Restrictions.
2. Click the Dayforce Service option.
3. In the section below the list of IP restriction types list, click Add, and then do the following:
Select the Rule Enabled checkbox.
Specify the IP addresses included in the rule by doing one of the following:
a. To allow or deny a specific address, enter the same number in both the Lower
IP Address Range and Upper IP Address Range fields.
b. To allow or deny a range of addresses, enter the lowest IP address in the Lower
IP Address Range field and enter the highest IP address in the Upper
IP Address Range field.
In the Access drop-down list, select Allow or Deny, depending on whether you want
to allow or deny access for the specified address or range of addresses.
(Optional) Enter a value in the Description and Service Provider fields.
4. Click Save.
5. Click Refresh.
Overview of Account Recovery Assistant
You can configure Dayforce so that when users are missing a verified email address or security
questions, the Account Recovery Assistant can be shown after logging in to allow them to update
this information without visiting their profile. Having a verified email address and security questions
recorded allows users to reset a forgotten password without contacting a Dayforce representative
or their administrator.

-- 314 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 315 of 0
Dayforce log in process. This functionality isn’t applicable for the Dayforce mobile apps.
Note: Users can update their email contact information directly through this functionality.
Therefore, it should be enabled only if employees are permitted to maintain their own contact
information in Dayforce.
When you enable this functionality, employees who are missing a verified email address or
security questions are prompted with the Account Recovery Assistant dialog box as the first
message after they log in:
If the employee already has some of this information, the dialog box only asks for the missing
information. For example, if the employee has already set up security questions but has no email
address, the dialog box only includes the section for updating their email address.
If the employee has an email address on file, but it isn’t verified, they can select it from the list to
verify it. They can also select Other and enter a new email address to verify:

-- 315 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 316 of 0
They can add the required information and click Submit, or click Skip to close the dialog box and
continue using Dayforce. Dayforce continues to show this dialog box after each log in until this
information is recorded.
The Account Recovery Assistant can also be configured to show the Close button instead of the
Skip button, so that employees must complete their password reset information before they can
access Dayforce. In this case, when an employee clicks Close, the application shows a message
indicating that they must provide the required information to access Dayforce.
If they click Return, the application shows the Account Recovery Assistant, where they can
provide the required information and click Submit to access Dayforce. If they click Logout, they
are returned to the main log in screen.
When users submit a new email address, Dayforce adds it to their profile as a personal email
address. Dayforce sends a standard verification link to the address that was either selected (for
pre-existing unverified addresses) or added. See Email Verification.
They can click Resend to send another verification link or OK to close the dialog box and continue
using Dayforce. Clicking the Need to use a different email address? link allows users to either add
a new address or choose from a pre-existing address to send the verification link to.
If the user doesn't take action on the verification link, or the link expires, Dayforce shows the
Account Recovery Assistant the next time they log in. Any pre-existing email address (including
the address that they previously added) is shown and they can resend the verification link.
Note: When the Account Recovery Assistant dialog box is configured, Dayforce doesn't display
the default log in messages that appear when an employee doesn't have a verified email. See
Email Verification.
Configure Account Recovery Assistant
To enable the Account Recovery Assistant, select the Enable Account Recovery Assistant
(Requires password reset) checkbox in the Security section of the Properties tab in System Admin
> Client Properties.

-- 316 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 317 of 0
You can also select the Disable Skipping of Account Recovery Assistant checkbox in the same
location to configure the Account Recovery Assistant to show the Close button instead of the Skip
button, so that employees must complete their password reset information before they can access
Dayforce. This also applies when using the Dayforce Mobile app
Note: When the Disable Skipping of Account Recovery Assistant checkbox is selected, users who
don’t have an employee profile in Dayforce (for example, system administrators) will still see the
Skip button, which they can click to continue to access Dayforce.
In addition, enabling the Account Recovery Assistant requires the following client properties in the
Security section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties to be enabled:
Enable Email Verification
Enable Password Reset (Requires email verification)
When you enable the Enable Account Recovery Assistant (Requires password reset) client
property, Dayforce automatically enables both of the above client properties if they aren't already
enabled.
When users submit an email address, Dayforce adds it to their profile as a personal email
address. To support this, a personal email option must be present in HR Admin > Contact
Information Types Admin. The configuration of this contact type must be as follows:
The Reference Code field must have PersonalEmail entered.
The Contact Information Type Group drop-down list must have Email Address selected.
The Contact Type drop-down list must have Personal selected.
See Contact Information Type Setup in the HR Administration Guide.
Email Verification
Email verification is the process whereby Dayforce is prompted to send a confirmation message to
a user's email address to verify that the address belongs to the user.
This section covers the following topics:
Enable Email Verification
Uses of Email Verification
Methods of Email Verification
Content of the Email Verification Message
Rejected Email Addresses
Communicate About Email Verification to Users
Enable Email Verification

-- 317 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 318 of 0
To enable email verification for your organization, select the Enable Email Verification property in
the Security section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties.
Uses of Email Verification
When enabled for your organization, email verification has two uses in Dayforce.
Email verification uses
Use 	Description 	Additional Configuration
Receiving
System
Notifications
Dayforce only sends system notifications to
verified email addresses.
Subscribe users to system
notifications. See System
Notifications Configuration.
Password
reset
Dayforce only sends password reset
requests that users initiate from the main
login screen to verified email addresses.
To enable this feature for users in
your organization, select the Enable
Password Reset (requires email
verification) property in the
Messages section of the Properties
tab in System Admin > Client
Properties.
See Messages.
Methods of Email Verification
An email verification link can be sent via a few different methods:
Email verification methods
Method Description
Method A
When users click Verify for the email address in the Contact Information dialog
box, which Dayforce is shown when you update contact information in the
Personal > About Me screen of Profile.
The Verify button is only enabled when you save an email address with the Alerts
checkbox selected.
Method B When users click Send Verification for the email address in the Email Addresses
section of the Personal > Contact Information screen in People.

-- 318 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 319 of 0
The Send Verification button is only shown when you save an email address with the
Alerts checkbox selected.
Method
C
When Dayforce automatically sends out an email verification request. It sends out
requests for any email address that is still not verified after an initial verification
request was sent out.
If the user doesn't respond to the initial request by a given time, the messages
begin to be sent by this method. Verification requests are usually sent daily.
Dayforce stops sending a message when one of the following occurs:
1. The user verifies their email address successfully.
2. The email address is marked as rejected. See Rejected Email Addresses.
3. The number of times that the email can automatically be sent reaches a
maximum. See Messages.
Note: When a user's email address is already assigned to another account, you can't send
verification emails, and the user can't use that address to reset their password or log in to
Dayforce. However, they can receive other alerts at that address.
Content of the Email Verification Message
Regardless of the method for initiating the verification request, users receive the following
message:

-- 319 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 320 of 0
This message contains the following features and attributes:
If the message is triggered by a user (that is, by method A or B in the previous section) the
first paragraph is displayed as follows:

-- 320 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 321 of 0
However, if the message is triggered automatically (that is, by method C in the previous
section), the first paragraph is displayed as follows:
In all cases, the message displays the total number of days until the verification button and
link expire. You can define this number with a value between one and five days using the
Email Verification Time Limit in Days property in the Security section of the Properties tab in
System Admin > Client Properties.
Users that received the message in error (for example, if the wrong email was added) can
click This is not my email address at the bottom of the message. See Rejected Email
Addresses.
Rejected Email Addresses
A rejected email means that the user might have added an incorrect email, and then the
unintended recipient clicked the This is not my email address link in the verification message
(described in the previous section). When an email is rejected, it no longer receives automatic
verification messages (that is, those sent from method C, described previously).
Moreover, the following occurs:
The rejected icon is displayed for the email address in the following areas:
The Contact Information dialog box, which is opened by updating contact information
in the Personal > About Me screen in Profile.
The Email Addresses section of the Personal > Contact Information screen in People.
When users log in, a message prompt informs them that their email was rejected. See
Verification Message Sent Out.
When users edit the email address and save changes, the rejected status is removed from the
email address.
Communicate About Email Verification to Users
Before You Begin: These messages aren't displayed if the Account Recovery Assistant is enabled.
See Overview of Account Recovery Assistant.
No Email Recorded Message
If the following applies to the user:

-- 321 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 322 of 0
The user hasn’t recorded an email address.
Note: For an email to be valid, it must have the Personal Email or Business Email option
selected in the Type drop-down list.
An email address is recorded, but the Alerts checkbox is cleared (that is, a verification email
message wasn’t yet sent to the user).
The email address has expired. This only occurs if the user defined the optional Effective
End parameter for the email address.
Then they will receive the following message each time they log in to Dayforce:
If the Enable Password Reset (requires email verification) property in the Security section of the
Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties isn’t enabled for your organization, the
message omits mention of the password reset feature:
Moreover, in all cases, this new message is only displayed to users when the following conditions
are met:
The Enable Email Verification property in the Security section of the Properties tab in System
Admin > Client Properties is selected.
The user's role is assigned all permissions of the Employee Contact Information access
authorization in the Authorizations tab of System Admin > Roles.
The user hasn’t yet selected the Don’t show this again checkbox from the warning message,
depicted above.
Verification Message Sent Out

-- 322 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 323 of 0
Each time users log in to Dayforce, a message is displayed if they didn't respond to an email
verification request or if their email address was marked as rejected:
If the Enable Password Reset (requires email verification) property in the Security section of the
Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties isn’t enabled for your organization, the
message omits mention of the password reset feature:
Moreover, this message is only displayed when the following conditions are met:
The Enable Email Verification property in the Security section of the Properties tab in System
Admin > Client Properties is enabled.
The user hasn’t yet selected the Don’t show this again checkbox from the warning message,
depicted above.
If a manager sends out an email verification request to a user who doesn't have the ability to add
an email themselves, this user will still see the above message when they log in.

-- 323 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 324 of 0
Manage Your Linked Devices
- New Profile user interface -
This topic explains how to manage your linked devices in the new Profile user interface. If you
have the original user interface, see Manage Your Linked Devices in the Employee Guide.
In Profile, you can view and remove tokens in Settings > Security, in the Authentication Tokens
section.
The list shows authentication tokens that were created when you allowed Google Assistant to
access Dayforce. To revoke access for Google Assistant, select the token type and click the X.
When you remove the token, you can't use Dayforce Assistant on a Google app. You then have to
reconnect your Dayforce account with Google Assistant.

-- 324 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 325 of 0
Org Setup Configuration
Information about your organization is used all across Dayforce, such as in security settings,
reporting, and scheduling. To configure these areas, your organization's structure needs to be
accurately mirrored in Dayforce.
This section describes how to set up your organization in Dayforce. General organization setup in
Dayforce is done in Org Setup in the appropriate subfeature. For example, general organization
setup is done in Org Setup > Organization. Legal entity setup for an organization is done in Org
Setup > Org Payroll Setup. The following is a list of the Org Setup feature and its subfeatures:
Org Setup
Authority Type
Docket
Job Assignment Qualifications
Job Assignment Sets
Jobs and Job Assignments
Labor Metrics
Locations
Org Payroll Setup
Organization
Zones Configuration
The order in which the subfeatures show in your instance of Dayforce depends on how you order
them for given role types in System Admin > Roles, in the Features tab.
For detailed information about the Org Setup feature and each of its subfeatures, see Org Setup.
Information about configuring favorites and views in Org Setup is available in Configure Favorite
Filters and Views for Org Units.
Configure Favorite Filters and Views for Org Units
This topic describes how to configure favorite filters and customize your views in Org Setup
> Organization, which can help you navigate more efficiently when configuring or reviewing your
org structure.
Configure Favorite Filters
The filter panel includes non-default filters for most fields in the General tab.
To configure favorite filters:

-- 325 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 326 of 0
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. Click Filter in the toolstrip and create your desired filter.
3. With a filter active, click Save Favorite As in the Favorites drop-down list in the toolstrip.
Dayforce shows the Add New Favorite dialog box where all of your favorite filters are listed.
4. In the Name field, enter a name for your filter.
5. (Optional) Select the Load by Default checkbox if you want the filter to load by default.
6. Click Save.
To manage favorite filters:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. In the Favorites drop-down list in the toolstrip, click Manage Favorites. Dayforce shows the
Manage Favorites dialog box, where all of your favorite filters are listed.
3. Select your desired saved favorite filter.
4. You have the following options to manage your favorite filter:
Load By Default
Clear Default
Delete
5. Click Save.
Configure Table Columns
To configure columns in the table:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. Click View in the toolstrip. The View dialog box opens:

-- 326 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 327 of 0
3.
3. You have the following options to configure columns:
Select or clear the checkboxes beside the column names that you want to include or
exclude.
Change the order of the columns by holding the order icon and dragging it to your
desired spot.
4. Click OK.
Toggle Org Unit Views
To toggle org unit views:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. Choose one of the following options:
Click Active to show org units that don’t have the Closing Date or Effective Date
in the past.
Note: The Active state filters out terminated employees and employees with end-
dated work assignments.
Click All to show all org units.
Organization Hierarchy
Organization (or org) hierarchy reflects your organization’s structure. Org hierarchy in Dayforce is
used to allocate taxes, to control access, to filter for scheduling and reporting, for general ledger
allocation, and in the mapping of jobs.

-- 327 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 328 of 0
Designing and configuring the organization hierarchy in Dayforce is important for several reasons.
Dayforce uses the structure that you set when it determines security access, filtering the various
feature areas in Dayforce that you and people in your organization use. These feature areas can
include People, Schedules, Timesheets, and so forth. Correctly configuring your organization is
important so that the information that’s available, or unavailable, to each user in Dayforce is
appropriate.
At the bottom of the hierarchy are departments. Departments roll up to, or belong to, zones.
Zones roll up to sites, also known as locations. Sites (locations) can be organized into one or more
groups or subgroups, such as districts or regions, in the organizational hierarchy. And, finally,
districts and regions roll up to the top (or corporate) level of the org hierarchy.
The following list describes the various org levels available in Dayforce:
Corporate: This is the top level of an organization. This org level contains all of the other
hierarchy levels in the organization, and it’s the first level that you create.
Region: (Optional) A region represents a group of districts. For example, a region is often
used in organizations that operate in more than one country or more than one continent.
This org level contains districts, sites, departments, zones, and on-site departments.
District: (Optional) A district represents a group of sites. For example, if an organization
operates on more than one continent, it might divide the organization into districts by
country grouped under a region, such as France, Germany, or Belgium in Europe, and the
United States and Canada in North America.
Site: A site represents a location where people are employed. A site can be a physical
building, a collection of buildings, a town, a city, or province, or it can be virtual.
Department: A department represents the area that needs a job to be done. A department
can represent a function (Finance, Sales), an area of responsibility (Production Line), or
even a virtual area (Union Duties).
Zone: A zone represents a grouping of on-site departments for the purposes of scheduling.
On-Site Department: An on-site department is made up of a site and a department that are
configured in Dayforce. For example, New York (site) + Packaging (department) = New
York Packaging (on-site department).
When you're finished configuring your organization, Dayforce contains a hierarchy that mirrors that
of your organization.
The way that you configure your org structure in Dayforce affects how employee work
assignments are set up, affecting jobs and job assignments. In Dayforce, a job assignment is
made up of a job and a department. A job is a set of activities that need to be done, and a
department can be an area that needs a job to be done. The department can be an area of
responsibility (Front Desk or Production Line), a functional area (Finance or Sales), or a virtual area
(Union Duties). See Jobs and Job Assignments Configuration.

-- 328 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 329 of 0
The following screenshot shows an example of how an organization's hierarchy has been defined
in Dayforce:
The top level of the hierarchy in the screenshot is labeled Corporate and includes two regions:
Manufacturing Co. Canada and Manufacturing Co. Mexico. Each region contains sites, and each
site contains departments. You can click the arrow next to an org unit to expand the view the next
level of the hierarchy. To view all levels beneath a specific org unit, select the unit and click
Expand in the toolstrip.
Note: This is just an example. The organization hierarchy can represent any organization,
including those in other verticals or industries such as retail or the service industry. Locations and
organizational units are defined in the same way for any vertical or industry.
The way that you configure your organization's hierarchy levels determines the behavior of
multiple features and elements in Dayforce. For example:
Management can be driven by location (org level) in the org hierarchy. Employees can be
filtered and scheduled by location.
Legal entities are tied to the site and are required for processing in the Payroll feature.
Timesheets are approved by site.
General Ledger information and details can be determined by the configuration of the
employee, department, org unit, job, and job assignment, as well as earning and deduction
codes in the system.
Schedules are loaded by site. Zones can be used to filter within a schedule.
Security and access are determined by org hierarchy. Users have visibility to different
locations in the org structure, and user roles control access to data.
Configuring the structure, or hierarchy, of your organization can involve several tasks, each of
which is described in the following topics:

-- 329 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 330 of 0
Configure Organizational Groups and Subgroups
Configure Departments
Create Zones
Create Zone Packages
Create Merchandising Departments
Link Merchandising Departments to Zones
Configure Locations
Org Payroll Setup
In Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup, you can use several subfeatures to configure specific aspects
of how your organization is structured:
Employee Work Location Overrides: This tab is used to add the addresses that can be
assigned to employees as a work location override in the Work > Work Assignments screen
in People. Because employees need to be taxed based on the location where they
physically work, the work location override address must be configured so they can be
assigned to employees.
Location Addresses
Mobile Org Addresses
Legal Entity
Organization setup in Dayforce is done in Org Setup in the appropriate subfeature. For example,
general organization setup is done in Org Setup > Organization. Legal entity setup for an
organization is done in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup.
For more information about Org Setup and its subfeatures, see Org Setup.
Employee Work Location Overrides
In Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Employee Work Location Overrides, you can configure
employee work location overrides using the location addresses configured in Org Setup > Org
Payroll Setup > Location Addresses.
Employee jobs are associated with on-site department locations for workforce management tasks,
such as timesheet approval, scheduling, and budgeting purposes. However, some employees
might work remotely or in locations that aren’t listed as physical locations in your organization’s
hierarchy.
Because employee taxation is based on the actual physical location where employees perform
their work, you might need to enter an employee work location override for an employee who
physically works in a different location than the site or on-site department work location assigned
to them in Dayforce.

-- 330 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 331 of 0
Note: You can apply the work location override only for employees who are part of pay groups of
native payroll countries.
The Employee Work Location Overrides screen shows a list of any employee work location
overrides that you have set up. Each entry has four columns:
Location Name: Name for the employee work location override.
Description: Optional description of the employee work location override.
Allow Legal Entity Override: Checkbox that you can select to allow the employee work
location override to override a legal entity.
Reference Code: Field for an XRefCode for imports and exports.
There can also be two tabs for each entry:
Address: This tab contains address information for the employee work location override.
Legal Entity: This tab is shown if the Allow Legal Entity Override checkbox is selected. You
can use this tab to configure a legal entity override for the work location override.
By setting up an employee work location override, you can specify the physical location where the
employee works, which helps to ensure that the employee’s taxes are properly calculated based
on that physical location.
For example, if an employee works out of a rented office space that isn’t one of the organization's
offices, then the address of the rented office space needs to be configured as a work location
override and assigned to the employee.
Say an employee works remotely from a location in Big Horn, Wyoming, but your organization
doesn’t have a site or on-site department configured in Big Horn, Wyoming. You must configure
an employee work location override for that employee so that the employee’s manager can assign
that work location override to the employee. That way, the employee is taxed for working in Big
Horn, Wyoming, as shown in the following screenshot:
Create Employee Work Location Overrides

-- 331 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 332 of 0
Before You Begin: Make sure you're familiar with the concepts related to employee work location
overrides in Employee Work Location Overrides.
To create an employee work location override:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Employee Work Location Overrides.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter the employee work location override details:
a. In the Location Name field, enter a name for the work location override.
b. (Optional) Enter a description for the work location override.
c. In the Allow Legal Entity Override column, select the checkbox to enable the override.
d. In the Reference Code field, enter an XRefCode for the work location override.
4. In the Address tab, enter the address details for the employee work location override.
5. Click Save.
You’re now ready to apply this work location override in the employee profile in People, in the
Work > Work Assignments screen.
Note: You can apply the work location override only for employees who belong to pay groups of
native payroll countries.
Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity
A legal entity is an organization that federal tax authorities recognize. A single organization might
have one legal entity or several. Because each legal entity belongs to one country, organizations
paying employees in more than one country need a separate legal entity for each country they
operate in. For example, if your organization has employees in both Canada and the United
States, it must have at least two legal entities configured: one for US employees and one for
Canadian employees.
Before You Begin: You should be familiar with how to set up organizations in Dayforce. General
information about organization structure is available in Organization Hierarchy.
In Dayforce, every organizational unit configured with Site selected in the Org Level drop-down list
in Org Setup > Organization must be assigned to a legal entity, and every organizational unit
configured with On-site department selected in the Org Level drop-down list in Org Setup >
Organization can have a legal entity explicitly assigned or can inherit the assignment from its
parent site.
Configuring legal entities involves the following general tasks:
Creating legal entity entries
Entering customer funding identifiers and bank information for legal entities
(Canada only) Entering employment insurance factors and funding identifiers

-- 332 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 333 of 0
Assigning legal entities to organizational units
Note: If you logged in with the English (United Kingdom) culture setting, the Legal Entity tab is
called Organisation.
Overview of Legal Entity Setup
Legal entities are configured in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity. This screen contains
a list of legal entities associated with the organization that have already been created. You can
also create new legal entities here.
Before You Begin: Dayforce contains several restricted fields that are System Role Only, meaning
that they’re available only to users who are logged on in a support or services role. The support
user role is configured through the Dayforce database.
The following screenshot shows an example of Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity:
Creating a basic legal entity entry involves filling out the fields for the corresponding columns,
listed in the following table:
Legal entity settings
Setting 	Description
Name The name of the legal entity, which is shown on employees'
earning statements and tax forms.
Description 	A description for the legal entity.
Operating Country
The country that the legal entity is based in. Depending on
how your organization is configured, this drop-down list
can include one or more countries. Legal entities can only
be assigned to sites that are in the same country.

-- 333 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 334 of 0
Note: (Australia only) Organizations in Australia can opt in to create a new
Australian legal entity with the same ABN number but with a different branch
number in the Federal/Business ID Number field, and in the STP parameters
subtab, in the Branch ID field, respectively.
To opt in to create an Australian legal entity with a duplicate ABN but with a
different branch number, the Allow duplicate ABN (Australia only – restricted)
client property in System Admin > Client Properties must be selected. You
must understand the Australian Tax Office’s Single Touch Payroll reporting
requirements with the same ABN but different branch numbers before enabling
this option. Also, when you create a new legal entity with the same
Federal/Business ID number but a different Branch ID with an existing one, a
unique Name is required. Otherwise, if the legal entity name already exists, an
error is shown.
Active 	Indicates if the legal entity is active.
Effective
Start Date
Effective End
Date
The time period when the legal entity is active.
Reference
Code XRefCode for use with imports and exports. See Cross-Reference Codes
No Back
Office
Checkbox that, when selected, prevents Dayforce from filing with Dayforce
Back Office for this legal entity. Required for legal entities in ConnectedPay
projects.
Legal Entity
Status
Determines whether Dayforce generates quarterly and annual reports. The
drop-down list contains the following options (each indicates whether quarterly
and annual reporting are included or excluded):
Active: Included
Implementation: Excluded
Lost no Tax Forms or Filing Required: Excluded
Lost with Tax Forms and Filing: Included
Out of Business (Acceleration): Included
Seasonal: Included

-- 334 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 335 of 0
Contractor Payroll
Pensioner Payroll
Regular Payroll
Earning
Statement
Logo
Allows you to assign a company logo to all earning statements for the legal
entity. This option overrides any logo assigned to a country. To set up a legal
entity logo as an option in this drop-down list, go to the Images tab in Site
Setup > Client and select the ESS Earning Statement Legal Entity in the Image
Type drop-down list and enter a unique name for the logo.
This option applies to logos on online earning statements.
Legal Entity Setup Minimum Requirements
At a minimum, you must complete these fields when you set up a legal entity in the Legal Entity
screen:
The Name field must contain the name of the legal entity.
The Country Code drop-down list in the Address tab (or the Operating Country column
drop-down list) must contain a country.
The Federal/Business ID Number field must have an entry.
The Active column checkbox must be selected for the legal entity to be active.
The Effective Start column must have a start date for the legal entity.
For information about creating legal entities, see Configure Basic Legal Entity Entries.
When you've created an entry, you can customize the legal entity's options in the other tabs based
on your organization's needs and the entity's country of operation.
Tabs in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity
Dayforce shows several tabs in the Legal Entity screen. You can view and configure the legal
entity in these tabs.
The Address Tab
The Tax Authorities Tab
The Customer Funding Identifiers Tab
The Employment Insurance Tab
The Workers Comp Tab
The Tax Remittance Tab
The YTD Amount Tab
The Quarterly/Annual Reporting Parameters Tab
The Fiscal Calendar Tab

-- 335 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 336 of 0
The Taxation Parameters Tab
The New Hire Reporting Tab
The STP Parameters Tab
The Payroll Parameters Tab
Legal Entity Tabs by Geographic Location
Note: If you logged in with the English (United Kingdom) culture setting, the Legal Entity tab is
called Organisation.
Depending on the geography of the legal entity, different tabs are shown. This table lists the tabs
in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity by geographic location:
Legal Entity tab availability by location
Tab 	Australia New
Zealand Mauritius Canada Ireland Singapore UK US
Address 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● ●
Tax Authorities 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● ●
Customer Funding
Identifiers ● 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● ●
Employment Insurance 	●
Workers Comp 	● 	● 	● 	● 	● 	●
Multiple Worksite
Reporting ●
Tax Remittance 	●
Quarterly/Annual
Reporting Parameters ●
YTD Amount 	●
Fiscal Calendar
(Financial Calendar*) ● 	● 	● 	● 	●
STP Parameters 	●
Parameters 	●
Payday Filing Details 	●
Payroll Parameters 	●

-- 336 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 337 of 0
Taxation Parameters 	● ● ● 	● ●
New Hire Reporting 	●
* The Fiscal Calendar tab is shown as the Financial Calendar tab when you're logged in with the
English (UK) or English (Ireland) culture setting.
Description of Legal Entity Tab Contents
The following table describes each of the tabs in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity:
Legal Entity tabs
Label 	Description
Address
The legal address of the legal entity on tax forms. The address
doesn't determine what taxes are applied to employees. In
general, the employer's work site address, as set up in Org
Setup > Organization in the Organization tab, determines the
taxes. Some taxes are determined by employees' home
addresses as set up in People.
Tax Authorities The federal, provincial, state, and local taxes for the legal
entity's operating country.
Customer Funding Identifiers
The specific account or accounts used by legal entities to pay
employees.
A funding identifier set at the legal entity level overrides any
pay group account unless overridden at the site or
department level in Org Setup > Organization in the
Organization tab.
For Canadian legal entities, the funding identifier must start
with E, F, or L (to indicate the series), followed by an
alphanumeric character (except O, I, or Z) and three numbers.
E4000, F4000, and L4000 are reserved and can't be used.
Employment Insurance
(Canada only) Custom employment insurance rates set at the
federal level, except for Quebec which is set at the provincial
level. Legal entities are granted special rates based on the
benefits offered to their employees.
Workers Comp
Contains workers' compensation classification codes. In
Canada, the provincial workers' compensation boards issue
these codes. In the United States, these codes are issued
either by state workers' compensation boards or private
insurance companies.

-- 337 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 338 of 0
Multiple Worksite
Reporting
(US only) Contains worksite numbers for legal entities who have
multiple locations that are covered under a single Unemployment
Insurance (UI) account; this can be a state requirement.
Quarterly/Annual
Reporting
Parameters
(US only) Contains tax reporting parameters at the legal entity level so
that the values are properly transmitted to Dayforce Tax Service at the
quarter-end and year-end.
Tax Remittance
(Canada only) The configuration options for each tax authority that
determine how legal entities remit taxes through the Government
Remittance System (GRS) in the Dayforce back office.
YTD Amount 	See Enter YTD Amounts of Employer Taxes for Canadian Legal Entities.
Fiscal Calendar
Assigns a fiscal calendar to the legal entity when the legal entity has a
fiscal year that's different from the calendar year. One or more fiscal
calendars must be set up in Payroll Setup > Fiscal Calendar before you
can assign a fiscal calendar to the legal entity. See The Fiscal Calendar
Tab.
STP Parameters
(Australia only) The details about the legal entity that are sent to the
Australian Tax Office (ATO) when an STP (Single Touch Pay) event
occurs.
Parameters The country-specific taxation configuration for the Republic of Ireland
and for the UK.
Payday Filing
(New Zealand only) The details about the legal entity that are sent to
the New Zealand Inland Revenue (IR) when a Payday Filing (PDF)
event occurs.
Taxation Parameters
The country-specific taxation configuration. For the US, the
configuration can include adding tax form confirmation numbers for
Puerto Rico or assigning a legal entity territorial-filing status. For
Canada, the configuration can include selecting the Apply Status
Indian Calculations to Legal Entity's Employees checkbox.
New Hire Reporting (US only) The details for the reporting of hew hires with the Department
of Health and Human Services (HHS).
Payroll Parameters (Singapore only) The configuration settings for Singapore payroll.
The Address Tab
The Address tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity has the following fields and
controls with descriptions for entries that require them:
Address
Address Line 2
Zip / Postal Code
Country Code: Required; drop-down list for the operating country for the legal entity

-- 338 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 339 of 0
State / Province
City: Drop-down list with any cities configured in the application, or the option to add a city.
County
The Tax Authorities Tab
The Tax Authorities tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity lists any tax authorities
configured for the legal entity. More conceptual information is available in Tax Settings and Tax
Qualifiers for Tax Authorities.
The toolstrip in the Tax Authorities tab contains the following controls:
Tax Type: Drop-down list to filter by tax type.
Show Only: Drop-down list to filter the returned list of tax authorities.
Applied For: Radio button to filter the returned list (applies to US legal entities only).
Description: Field to enter text to filter by tax authority descriptions.
Apply Filter: Button that applies any changes you've made to the filters.
Clear Filter: Button that clears any changes you've made to the filters.
Add new Taxes: Button that opens the Add New Taxes dialog box.
The columns shown in the list depend on the operating country as selected in the Address tab.
The following columns are shown for entries in the Tax Authorities tab:
Tax Authority
DTS Tax ID
Tax Type
Tax Name
Description
Employee Tax
Employer Tax
Client Responsible Tax: (US only) Indicates that this is an authority that Dayforce Tax Service
doesn't currently file.
Company Tax ID Number
Applied For: (US only)
Date Applied: (US only)
Debit Journal Number
Credit Journal Number
Manually Added Tax: (US only) Indicates that this is an authority that wasn't geolocated
based on addresses associated to the legal entity, but was user maintained.
This topic, and its related topics, cover tax authorities that are assigned to or associated with legal
entities, or employees of those legal entities in the Tax Authorities tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll
Setup > Legal Entity.

-- 339 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 340 of 0
If you're using WFM only, without the Payroll module, tax authority information is set up so
that taxes can be correctly calculated and included in pay run exports to be handled by the
customer's payroll solution.
If you're using the Payroll module in Dayforce for payroll calculation and disbursements,
legal entity tax authority information is set up as described in these topics. Information about
the payroll taxes configured for their organization in Payroll Setup > Payroll Taxes is
available in Payroll Setup > Payroll Taxes. If you need to add taxes to legal entities, you can
find specific information about the taxes in Payroll Setup > Payroll Taxes and use that
information to add the taxes to the legal entity in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal
Entity.
Tax Authorities
Dayforce calculates and applies employer and employee taxes based on the tax authorities
assigned to a legal entity. The tax authorities configured for legal entities determine the specific
taxes paid by both the legal entity and by its employees, whose taxes can also depend on where
they work and where they live.
Tax authorities are configured for each legal entity in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
Legal entities' associated taxes are listed in the Tax Authorities tab.
Tax authorities are assigned to a legal entity based on the addresses of the legal entity sites where
employees work. Also, tax authorities are assigned to a legal entity depending on the primary
residence addresses of its employees. Employee address information is configured in People.
For example, if a US legal entity has locations in Massachusetts, California, and New York,
Dayforce determines and lists the applicable federal taxes, as well as the state taxes from
Massachusetts, California, and New York as separate tax authorities. State and local taxes are
then applied to individual employees based on their home states, work states, and, in some
cases, their specific addresses.
Dayforce determines the possible taxes that are applicable to a legal entity after the following
tasks have been performed:
The legal entity is linked to organizational units.
Sites assigned to the legal entity have their address recorded in the Address tab.
Employees are assigned to work at the sites in the Work > Work Assignments screen of
People.
After these steps have been performed, the application runs its tax locator functionality and
returns the taxes that a legal entity and its employees should potentially be paying. These taxes
are client-responsible, meaning that customers are responsible for filing them. Dayforce marks
payroll taxes that are client-responsible with a checkmark in the Client Responsible tax field.
These taxes aren't filed by Dayforce on behalf of customers and therefore are the customer's

-- 340 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 341 of 0
responsibility to file. You can report on these taxes using the Client Responsible Taxes Report
available in Payroll.
View, Add, or Refresh Tax Authorities
To view or add tax authorities associated with a legal entity:
1. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity.
2. Select the legal entity and then click the Tax Authorities tab.
3. Select the tax authority from the list.
4. Click Add in the Tax Setting section to the right of the list of tax authorities.
5. Enter a date in the Effective Start field to indicate when the tax starts using the supplemental
tax method.
6. (Optional) Enter a date in the Effective End field to indicate when the supplemental tax
method expires.
7. Select an option in the Supplemental Tax Method drop-down list, if applicable. For the
Supplemental Flat Rate tax method, select an option in the Supplemental Alternate
Calculation Method drop-down list.
8. Click Save.
As changes are made to the organizational hierarchy, such as sites being opened in new states or
provinces, employees changing locations or residential addresses, there might be new taxes
applicable to legal entities.
Refresh Employee Taxes
To check for new tax authorities based on the current organizational hierarchy, employee work
assignments, and addresses, run the Dayforce tax locator functionality by doing the following:
1. Go to Org Setup > Organization.
2. Click the Organization tab.
3. Click Refresh Employee Taxes.
Columns in the Tax Authorities Tab by Country
Tax authorities for legal entities can be viewed, added, and edited in Org Setup > Org Payroll
Setup > Legal Entity by selecting a legal entity and clicking the Tax Authorities tab.
Columns in the US Tax Authorities list
Column 	Description
Tax Authority 	The numeric designation in Dayforce for the tax authority.
DTS Tax ID 	Dayforce Tax Service Tax ID for the tax authority.
Tax Type Jurisdictional type of the tax authority, including (but not limited
to) Federal, State, Possession, County, City, Village, and School

-- 341 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 342 of 0
District.
Tax Name 	Name given to the tax to appear in earning statements.
Description 	Description of the tax authority.
Employee Tax
Checkbox that, when selected, marks the tax as an employee-paid tax.
Employee-paid taxes are displayed on employee earning statements and
compensation statements.
Employer Tax
Checkbox that, when selected, marks the tax as an employer-paid tax.
Employer-paid taxes aren’t displayed on employee earning statements,
but they are displayed on compensation statements.
Client Responsible
Tax
Checkbox that, when selected, marks the tax as one not supported or
filed by DTS. Client responsible taxes must be filed by the employer.
Company Tax
ID Number
Nine digit number specific to your company. Also referred to as an
Employer Identification Number, or EIN, for US legal entities. This number
is included in several tax forms and reports.
Applied For Checkbox that, when selected, indicates that the Company Tax ID
Number has been applied for.
Date Applied 	Date that the Company Tax ID Number was applied for.
Debit J