features. This behavior can impact your data in the following ways:
Shift Marketplace shifts aren’t editable, but when they’re converted to a shift under an
employee’s secondary work assignment, the employee might be able to adjust the shift’s
details.

-- 194 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 195 of 0
After Dayforce converts Shift Marketplace work assignments to secondary work
assignments, employees might be able to:
Add shifts using these secondary work assignments.
Add these secondary work assignments to favorite sets in some timesheet features,
and create shifts using these favorite sets.
If you re-enable the Shift Marketplace client property, these shifts are reconverted and
inaccurately shown as Shift Marketplace shifts in timesheet features. This behavior occurs
even if the shifts aren’t linked to a schedule and weren’t picked up in the mobile Shift
Marketplace feature.
See Shift Marketplace.
Multi-Week Calendar
The parameters in the Multi-Week Calendar section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client
Properties control how Dayforce displays information in Multi-Week Calendar.
AutoLoad
Select this checkbox to load the calendar data automatically after you select which location you
want to view. When this client property isn’t enabled, you have to click the Load button in the
toolstrip to load the calendar data.
Show Week Breaks
Select this checkbox to add a dotted line between each week to indicate where one week ends
and another begins, as shown in the following screenshot:
Show Month Breaks
Select this checkbox to add a solid line between each month to indicate where one month ends
and another begins, as shown in the following screenshot:

-- 195 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 196 of 0
Show Week Numbering
Select this checkbox to add the chronological week number to the beginning of each week, as
shown in the following screenshot:
The previous screenshot shows that the twenty-ninth week of the year occurs from July 16 to July
22.
Differentiate Days of the Week
Select which days of the week you want to shade in gray to differentiate them from other days. For
example, you could select Sunday and Saturday to differentiate weekends from weekdays. This
would result in the calendar looking like this:
Client Properties - Payroll

-- 196 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 197 of 0
This topic contains an overview of the client payroll properties that you can set in the Payroll
section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties. This topic addresses each of
the fields and options available to you in the Payroll section and how they work together.
For basic instructions on how to configure client payroll properties, see Configure Client Payroll
Properties.
Allow Canada Customer Banking
Note: This property shows only for users who log in to Dayforce using a Service role. For more
information, contact Dayforce Support. After this setting is turned on, it can’t be turned off or
cleared.
Enables Canadian organizations to configure a bank account to fund payroll. This bank account
can be configured to pay employees directly via direct deposits.
Allow GL duplication of premium split hours
Note: This property shows only for users who log in to Dayforce using a Service role. For more
information, contact Dayforce Support.
When you select the client property, Dayforce duplicates entries during a payroll GL export of
premium earnings with split hours. By default, the client property is not selected and premium
earning entries are not duplicated.
Allow Provincial Health Tax Deferral
Select to enable the Enable Tax Payment Deferral setting for specific Canadian provincial taxes in
the Tax Authorities tab in Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity. Dayforce supports the tax
deferral programs for the following provincial taxes:
Ontario Employer Health Tax (EHT)
Allow Reduction of Canada Income Tax Deductions at Source for Cross Province Employment
Select to enable Dayforce to calculate taxes for Quebec employees who reside in a province
other than Quebec and want to reduce their income tax deductions at source. Each employee
must complete a T1213 form. To finish configuring this feature, you must also select the Apply
Income Tax Reduction for Cross Province Employment checkbox in the Payroll > Tax Definitions
screen in People.
Allow USA territorial W-2 statements to be mailed to the employee
When this client property is selected, mailing physical copies of Year End Form W-2 to employees
in US territories, and updates the Year End Delivery Package report accordingly:

-- 197 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 198 of 0
W2-PR—Puerto Rico
W2-GU—Guam
W2-VI—US Virgin Islands
W2-AS—American Samoa
W2-CM—Commonwealth of the Northern Marianna Islands
Allow duplicate ABN (Australia only - restricted)
Allows you to create a new Australian legal entity with the same Australian Business Number
(ABN) but a different branch number in Org Set-up > Org Payroll Set-up > Legal Entity in the
Federal/Business ID number field, and in the STP Parameters sub-tab in the Branch ID field,
respectively.
Allow duplicate BN (Canada Only - Restricted)
Allows Canadian organizations to configure more than one legal entity record with the same
business number. This feature is used to support a legal entity that has more than one employer
health tax (EHT) or Revenu Quebec "RS" identification number.
Before you turn on this setting, the legal entities must meet the following requirements:
The legal entities that share the same business number must have different names in
Dayforce.
Each legal entity can have the same or different account IDs for employer health taxes or
RS identification numbers.
To ensure accurate reporting, each legal entity must use different funding accounts to pay
their employees. See Customer Funding Identifiers for Canadian Legal Entities.
Allow imports to add terminated employee to the pay run
Select to allow the import process to automatically add prior period terminated employees to the
pay run when you run a Quick Entry Import or a Pay Entry Import. As well, a warning message is
displayed in the Problems panel to let you know that a terminated employee was automatically
added when you recalculate payroll after the import.
Enable option to use Benefit Eligibility date for Expression-based Payroll elections
When selected, Dayforce uses the actual benefit eligibility dates to determine the payroll election
effective dates. See Payroll Election Effective Dates.
Allow pay date to fall on holiday/weekend for off-cycle runs (North America)
Enables employers in the United States and Canada to create an off-cycle pay run with a pay
date on Saturday, Sunday, or a public holiday.
Set ROE Block 12 date to the last day of the pay period that includes the date in Block 11

-- 198 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 199 of 0
Changes how Block 12 Final Pay Period Ending Date is filled in the ROE forms in Dayforce.
When the client property is turned on, the end date shown in Block 12 belongs to the pay period
associated with Block 11 Last Day For Which Paid.
When the client property is turned off, Block 12 shows the end date of the most recent pay period.
Important: Block 15C includes only insurable earnings up to the date in Block 12. When the client
property is turned on and the date in Block 12 is earlier than the end date of the most recent pay
period, earnings in later pay periods aren’t automatically included in Block 15C.
Tax Locator Behavior
Before You Begin: The Tax Locator Behavior client property is available only to users with the
System role.
Select an option to determine how the tax locator calculates updates to employee locations when
they’re made using HR Import or the Employee API:
Default: The tax locator processes changes caused by HR imports or Employee API
updates immediately.
Defer (HR Import 2 and RESTful API Only): The tax locator processes changes caused by
HR imports or Employee API updates after they are completed.
Disable: The tax locator doesn’t process any changes caused by HR imports or Employee
API updates.
Allow Resident Taxation Based on Business Date in Check Template
For US employers, select to show the option Enable Resident Taxation Based on Business Date in
Payroll Setup > Check Templates. See Check Templates Screen Overview.
Calculate Canada Provincial and Health Tax for Virtual EE's using Work Location Only
Select to calculate provincial and health taxes based on work location for Canadian employees
who work remotely. This option only applies to employees who are configured as virtual
employees in their HR profile in People. See Virtual Checkbox for Canadian Employees in the
HR Administration Guide.
When you configure the employee's HR profile with a work location override, the provincial and
health taxes are calculated based on the override location.
For example, a virtual employee resides in Winnipeg. Their employer in Ontario has the Calculate
Canada Provincial and Health Tax for Virtual EE's using Work Location Only checkbox selected in
Dayforce.

-- 199 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 200 of 0
If this employee doesn't have a work location override, their pay is subject to the Ontario
provincial and health taxes.
If this employee has a work location override configured for Vancouver, British Columbia,
their pay is subject to the BC provincial and health taxes.
Client Name
Enter the legal name of the client or organization. Dayforce prints this name on a variety of reports.
Allow ESS Earning Statement Preview
Select to allow employees to preview earning statements in Earnings for pay periods that haven’t
been committed yet. By default, this option is disabled, and employee earning statements are
available on or after the pay date.
ConnectedPay Enabled
Select to allow payroll administrators to import future-dated pay data using the Pay Run History
Import file. The organization must be configured as an international ConnectedPay operating
location before you select this option. See ConnectedPay Feature Configuration.
Global Country Administration Enabled
Activates the Global Properties feature so you can access and view country-specific fields that
are associated with the country that your employees are in. Some fields are required to process a
compliant payroll in your country and are marked as Enabled and cannot be deactivated. Other
fields might be optional and can be activated or deactivated. This feature functionality replaces
the need to use scripts to add relevant employee properties for a country, and you can use
country-specific fields in your instance.
Integrated Countries
In this drop-down list, you select the integrated countries to associate with the Global Properties
feature in Dayforce. The countries selected in the drop-down list are shown in HR Admin > Global
Properties.
Enable Statement Email Notification
Select to add the ability to enable email statement notifications at the pay group level by going to
Pay Setup > Pay Group, selecting a pay group, and clicking the Payroll Properties tab. See
Configure Pay Group Payroll Properties.
Payroll Decimal Rounding Precision
Enter a number to set the number of decimal places that Dayforce uses to round results when
calculating amounts for generated earnings, deduction amounts, or deductions subtracted from

-- 200 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 201 of 0
gross pay.
GL Decimal Rounding Precision
Enter a number to set the number of decimal places that the Dayforce GL engine uses when
calculating any split logic, including allocation, week split, and accrual calculation.
Payroll Can Affect Accruals
Sets access to the Balance sub-tab for earning definitions, which you can then configure by going
to the Earnings tab in Payroll Setup > Earnings and Deductions and selecting an earning
definition. The Balance sub-tab allows you to configure earnings so that they increment or
decrement balances as they are created as quick entries. See Link Earnings to Balances.
Tax Form Print ESS Offset (Days)
Sets the number of days that Dayforce waits from the date that tax forms are generated in Year
End to when employees can see them in Earnings.
Enable Tax Form Email Notification
Adds the ability to enable email tax form notifications at the pay group level by going to Pay Setup
> Pay Group, selecting a pay group, and clicking the Payroll Properties tab. See Configure Pay
Group Payroll Properties.
SSN Display on 1099R
(US only) Select an option to set SSN display options for 1099-R forms and associated reports.
Leave blank or select Show All to display the entire SSN, or select Show the Last 4 Digits to mask
all but the last four digits of the SSN.
SSN Display on 1099M
(US only) Select an option to set SSN display options for 1099-MISC forms and associated
reports. Leave blank or select Show All to display the entire SSN, or select Show the Last 4 Digits
to mask all but the last four digits of the SSN.
SSN Display on W2
(US only) Select an option to set SSN display options for W-2 forms and associated reports. Leave
blank or select Show All to display the entire SSN, or select Show the Last 4 Digits to mask all but
the last four digits of the SSN.
Number of pre-note days
(US only) Enter a number of days that Dayforce sends a pre-note (zero value test) to new or
edited direct deposit bank accounts to validate the account numbers before live transactions are

-- 201 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 202 of 0
sent. This ensures account validation if a new direct deposit account entry has been made, or if
an existing Routing Transit Number or Account Number of an existing direct deposit account has
been made in either People or by using a self-service form. Can be overridden at the employee
level. See Payroll Direct Deposit Information.
Apply rounding adjustment for WFM mapping
Select to round the gross pay amounts mapped from WFM to the same precision as specified in
the Payroll Decimal Rounding Precision field. This applies to earnings that are configured with
payroll mappings linking them to time and gross pay recorded in the WFM functionality of
Dayforce.
Enable tax locator warnings from payroll engine
Select to display warning messages in Payroll if there are problems with residential or business
addresses that might cause incorrect payroll tax calculations (for example, a missing county name
in a jurisdiction that requires that information).
Default disbursement method for onsite check
Select to set the default payment method for onsite checks: Check or Payroll Card.
Tax Calculation Message Logging Level
Select an option to return an error in Payroll based on the selection you make. Your selection
determines the error levels that must occur for Dayforce to send you error messages. No selection
defaults to the logging level 3 - Failure Messages (3000-4999) in the drop-down list.
Show check-specific messages recorded in My Pay on earning statements
Select to set the option to print or display messages under Messages on printed and online
earning statements, when a payroll administrator enters something in the Messages field in
checks or quick entries.
Disable Canada Garnishment Arrears Calculation
(Canada only) By default, Dayforce is set to calculate arrears, so this checkbox is cleared. To turn
off the calculation of arrears, select this checkbox.
This setting also impacts the Garnishments History Report. If this checkbox is cleared, the
Garnishment History Report includes the message "Disable Arrears Calculation" with the indicator
"N", and arrears amounts are included in the report output. If the checkbox is selected, the
Garnishment History Report includes the message "Disable Arrears Calculation" with the indicator
"Y", and arrears amounts are excluded from the report output.
Important: After you commit a pay run for a Canadian pay group, you cannot change this option
back to calculate arrears.

-- 202 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 203 of 0
Garnishment Administration Fee
Field for the allowable fee that the employer can charge for the administration of garnishments.
ESS Earning Statement Offset Override (Days)
Enter a number (positive or negative) in the field to set an offset (in days) before a check is
displayed to employees in Employee Self Service. The value 0 makes statements available at
12:00 on the pay date, -1 makes statements available one day before the pay date, and 1 makes
statements available one day after the pay date.
Exclude Employee Profile From ESS Earning Statement Offset
When selected, all committed earning statements are immediately available in People,
independent of the Employee Self-Service offset value. If this checkbox is cleared, the earning
statements in People and in Employee Self-Service respects the offset value for when committed
earning statements are available.
Show 'Void After XXX Days' message on the On Site check
Select to add a void message to onsite checks. For example, "Void after 180 Days." Selecting this
checkbox requires you to enter a number in the field immediately below.
Number of Days for 'Void after XXX Days'
Specifies the number of days to insert into the "Void After XXX Days" message that is on printed
onsite checks to indicate how long after printing the check becomes void.
Onsite Check Stock Type
Select an option to configure whether onsite checks are printed using check stock that is pre-
printed with magnetic ink, or on check stock that isn’t pre-printed and will require magnetic ink to
print the bottom MICR information line; options are No Pre-Printed Bank Information and Pre-
Printed Bank Information.
Note: If you set the No Bank Info Pre-Printed option in a non-production environment instance of
Dayforce, the Void watermark will appear on checks for security purposes.
Allow AZ Tax Credit
(US only) Select to have the AZ Charity Credit checkbox displayed in the setup for post-tax
deductions in Payroll Setup > Earnings and Deductions. The tax credit is applicable for
employees in Arizona.
Enable Org Picker on Payroll

-- 203 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 204 of 0
Adds the Org Picker in Payroll for users whose restricted access is varied across different org
units.
Participate in Reciprocal Tax Calculation
Available to Support and Implementation roles only. Selected by default, ensuring that reciprocity
is enabled at a tax authority code level and company level. It’s never recommended to disable this
option.
Track Res Taxable Wages For EEs (No Certificate on File), From Tax Year
(US only) Appears only for Support users. Select to track resident state tax wages. No Certificate
on File is set for a given employee in the Payroll > Tax Definitions screen of People in the
Employee Payroll Tax section, in the Certificate Code drop-down list (for certain taxes) using the
option 0 - No Certificate on File.
Pay preview load batch size
Sets the number of pay records to load for each batch load thread, to make processing large pay
groups easier. Enter 500 to limit the load to batches of 500 records at a time.
Enable Convenience of Employee (COE) Taxation (US Only)
Select this checkbox to allow employees residing in a state that is different from where the
employer is located so that they are subject to taxation in both states.
If selected, Dayforce shows the COE Project checkbox in Projects > Management. This option
enables taxation for states with COE regulations (for example, NY, CT, NE). Employees primarily
assigned to work in these COE states have taxable wages for both the project location and the
COE state.
Pay preview load thread number
Sets the number of times to load pay preview load batches, in the Pay preview load thread
number field for large pay groups.
Available Employee Properties for printed statement sorting
Add one or more custom sorting options for courier delivery packages based on the employee
properties configured in HR Admin > Employee Properties. See Employee Property Setup in the
HR Administration Guide.
My Pay employee calculation batch size
Enter a number to limit how many employee records are calculated at one time. For large pay
groups, setting this can improve performance when calculating checks, adjustments, and quick

-- 204 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 205 of 0
entries. For example, if you specify a batch size of 50 here, and later you want to create 75 quick
entries in Payroll, Dayforce calculates the first 50 entries as a batch, and then continues to
calculate the remaining 25.
Enable Concurrent Calculate
Select to allow one pay run to load while Dayforce is calculating another pay run.
See Concurrent Commit Controls for Employees in Multiple Pay Groups.
Max Problem Pane Message Number
Sets a specific number of error messages in the Problems panel in the Payroll feature. The default
is 50 messages, but you can specify a larger number to display more message, or a smaller
number to display fewer messages.
When the limit is exceeded, Dayforce displays a message in the Problems panel instructing users
to view the remaining messages by generating an export file from the Problems panel.
Enable Alternate Funding
Sets the ability for you to configure alternate funding identifiers for US legal entities for normal off-
cycle pay runs. Go to Org Setup > Org Payroll Setup > Legal Entity, select a legal entity, click the
Customer Funding Identifiers tab, and if there are two or more entries in the Bank Account Setting
list, you can set alternate funding identifiers in the Alternate Payroll Check and Check Deposit tab.
See Bank Accounts.
Enforce matched pairing of Work Assignment and Legal Entity
The Enforce matched pairing of Work Assignment and Legal Entity checkbox configures overrides
for work assignment and legal entity pairings in the Non-Primary Legal Entity section of Work
> Work Assignments. To prevent the removal of enforced match pairing and enabled the override
of work assignments' associated legal entities, this checkbox is set to on and is grayed out and
disabled by default for new client organizations.
Regenerated Tax Forms include (US Only)
Select All Changes to include minor changes such as employer address, employee address, or
employee middle initial, or select Major Changes Only to include changes to surname, SSN, or
SIN.
Auto Generate Year End Forms and Reports overnight after commit?
Configures Dayforce to automatically generate year end forms and reports overnight when pay
runs are committed.
Auto Generate Year End Forms and Reports after commit starting from

-- 205 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 206 of 0
If the option to auto-generate year end forms and reports overnight after commit is selected,
select the month to start generating the year end forms automatically.
Electronic Year-End Form Delivery for Terminated Employees(US Only)
Configures Dayforce to deliver electronic, rather than printed, year-end forms to terminated
employees.
Perform Wage and Tax Validation During Payroll Calculation (UK Only)
(UK only) Validates for out of balance taxes to check whether amounts paid in taxes equal the
wages for those taxes.
Show Dayforce Wallet Promotion
Enables the Dayforce Wallet banner, which lets users register for a Dayforce Wallet Card without
having to download the Dayforce Wallet mobile app, and encourages users to get their pay check
deposited to their Dayforce Wallet Card. See Dayforce Wallet Banner in the Dayforce Wallet
Administrator Guide.
Ceridian Print Location
If your organization is configured for Dayforce Print, Support users can configure the US print
location city in the Ceridian Print Location drop-down list.
Display Print Date on Onsite Checks
Sets the option to include the print date, in addition to the pay date, on onsite checks.
Apply Pay Group Admin Access Restriction to User Setup
Sets the option to restrict access to pay groups. Pay group access is set by explicitly adding
entries in System Admin > User for a specific user in the Pay Group Admin Access tab. See User
Account Settings.
Allow Pay Entry Import to Auto-Generate Non-Primary Employee Work Assignments
Configures the ability to add employees to multiple jobs and departments using pay entry imports.
See Assignment of Employees to Multiple Jobs and Departments Using Pay Entry Imports.
Allow Pay Entry Import to respect Business Date for setting Pay Rate
Enables the Pay Entry Import to observe business date and effective date for salary changes
when assigning rates during the import process. When the checkbox is selected, Dayforce pays
employees based on the rate that was effective on the business date associated with each of the
hours included in the import. If hours in the import don’t have an associated business date,
Dayforce assigns them the rate as of the pay period end date. When this checkbox is cleared,

-- 206 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 207 of 0
Dayforce always uses the employee's rate that was effective on the pay period end date of a pay
run.
For example, say that an employee's current pay period runs from Feb 4 to Feb 17. On Feb 12,
the employee's pay increases from $10 to $11 hourly. Select this checkbox and the imported
hours worked from Feb 4 to Feb 11 are paid at $10 hourly, and the imported hours worked from
Feb 12 to Feb 17 are paid at $11 hourly.
Allow payroll to assign historic primary work assignment based on business date
The Pay Entry XML import file can populate a historical primary work assignment that was
effective for an employee on the prior-period business date that is indicated in the file when a valid
OrgUnitXrefCode and DeptJobXrefCode isn’t provided for the entry in the file. If a primary
work assignment for the business date isn’t found, the import will populate the current primary
work assignment. This feature is useful if you have Payroll imports that have business dates in the
past and that are no longer effective in the current pay period.
Duplicate Bank Account Validation Threshold
Sets the threshold for the number employees who can have the same bank account. If the
threshold is met, you can’t commit the pay run and an error message shows in the Problems
panel.
Allow Shared Pay Run Lock for Pay Run Admin
Sets the option for more than one administrator to lock or unlock pay runs. If the option is cleared,
only the administrator who locked a pay run can unlock that pay run.
Display Default Earning Statement Layout
Sets the option to use the default earning statement layout for WFM-only users that import
employee earning statements.
Block Fixed Garnishments on Non-Normal Check Templates
Sets Dayforce to withhold only fixed amount garnishments from earnings that are assigned to the
system Normal check template. See Block Fixed Garnishments on Non-Normal Check Templates.
Arrestment Admin Fee
Field for the allowable fee that the employer can charge for the administration of arrestments.
Hide Dayforce Logo on Online Statements
Note: This property is displayed only for users who log in to Dayforce using a Service role. For
more information, contact Dayforce Support.

-- 207 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 208 of 0
Authorized users can select this property to set the application to hide the Dayforce logo that
appears at the bottom left of each page of new or existing online earning statements in employee
self-service, the earning statement preview of the Payroll module, the HR profile, and the Earning
Statement Report.
Use Onsite Earning Statement Template For US Earning Statements
Note: This property is only displayed for users who log in to Dayforce using a Service role. For
more information, contact Dayforce Support.
Authorized users can select this property to set online earning statements for US employees to
use the same layout as onsite check earning statements, instead of the standard online earning
statement layout. See Use Onsite Earning Statement Template for US Earning Statements.
Work Location Overrides on non-primary Employee Work Assignments
If this checkbox is selected, the Work Assignment UI exposes the WLO field regardless of whether
the Primary flag is selected.
Note: Service role only. This field is only for use with Microsoft Integration customers.
Allow negative AutoPay generation to offset reduction earnings
Select this checkbox configures Dayforce to generate a negative auto pay earning to offset the
amount of the auto pay reducing earning if the legal entity doesn’t have any autopay earnings, but
does have an autopay-reducing earning.
Note: Service role only.
Suppress Display of Voided and Original Checks in ESS
Select this checkbox for Dayforce to suppress the display of earning statements for voided
payments, and the original payment that was voided, in employee self service features (for
example, the Earnings feature). However, they will still be displayed in the People feature so that
administrators can view all statements. This functionality is useful if you don’t want voided checks
for corrections or other updates to appear in employee self service. See Suppress Display of
Voided and Original Checks in ESS.
Suppress Auto ROE Generation For Election Workers with Less Than 35 Insurable Hours YTD
For Canadian election workers who work less than 35 insurable hours in a calendar year, select
this checkbox to stop Dayforce from generating ROE forms for these employees. See Canadian
Election Workers. When the client property is turned on, the ROE tab in Payroll > Pay Run
Management no longer shows election workers with less than 35 insurable hours YTD.
Note: Service role only.

-- 208 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 209 of 0
Use Verification Services APIs instead of Equifax Payroll Export File
Service role users only. This client payroll property controls whether employment and income data
for US employees is sent to a vendor as a file transmitted by Dayforce Link or returned as an API
response from call that a vendor made. The APIs are:
GET Employee Verification of Employment (VOE)
GET Employee Verification of Income (VOI)
Information about these APIs is available on the Dayforce Developers Network,
https://developers.dayforce.com, in the API Explorer under Payroll > Employee Verification.
Select this checkbox to configure the client instance to return employment and income data for
US employees as an API response to a call that a vendor makes.
Data isn’t sent to a vendor using both methods for the same namespace. For a namespace with
US employees, data is only be sent to Equifax using the export file by Dayforce Link, or as a result
of an API call. This property determines which method is used. If the checkbox is:
Cleared (not selected), any API calls made for US employees in this namespace fail and
display an error that API isn’t available.
Selected, any export files that configured aren’t generated. Dayforce includes a warning
message in the payroll data export background job to indicate that the export didn’t
generate because the client is configured for API calls instead.
Show On-Demand Pay Disbursed Amount in Earning Statement List
Select this checkbox to include the Disbursed column in the earning statement list (in Profile and
employee self-service). This allows users to distinguish between the disbursement amount on an
ODP earning statement and the net pay amount on a regular earning statement: the net pay
amount represents the entire net pay for the pay period.
Enable Estimated Annual Salary Canadian Bonus tax calculation
(Canada only) Select this checkbox for Dayforce to base income tax for bonuses on the
employee's estimated normal earnings. This functionality overrides the default behavior for
calculating bonus tax that is based on the current or most recent earnings. See Bonus Taxation
Based on Estimated Earnings.
Turn off population of RL1 Box G1 for Taxable Benefits only
(Canada only) Selecting this checkbox configures Dayforce not to populate Box G1 in the RL-1
slip with taxable benefits amounts.
Display Employer Taxes on Earning Statement

-- 209 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 210 of 0
(UK and Ireland only) Select a country in this drop-down list to include the Employer Taxes section
on employee payslips. For example, when Ireland is selected, the Employer Taxes section
appears on Irish employees' payslips.
Enable Bank File Transmission
(Ireland only) This drop-down list has two options: Disable and Enable. Only to be set to Enable if
the Irish legal entity uses Dayforce, Inc. as a tax agent, which requires additional setup. Details
are available in the topic Organisation Setup for Ireland Payroll
Populate Payroll General Ledger Reporting Data Tables
Available only to Support and Implementation roles. This client property supports the add-in
option for pulling data from the PRGLResult data table. Select this option to turn on the GL
reporting feature and trigger the background job Populate Payroll General Ledger Reporting Data
Tables to run automatically on payroll commit.
Add New Hire Export to Report Archive
Select this checkbox to add the New Hire Export to Payroll > Archived Reports. When payroll is
committed, Dayforce adds the New Hire Export (as a .dat file) to the list of archived reports in
Payroll > Archived Reports.
Require recalculation after committing pay runs with mutual employees
Select this checkbox to set concurrent commit controls to force the recalculation of crossover
employees between commits. This checkbox is selected by default. See Concurrent Commit
Controls for Employees in Multiple Pay Groups.
Enable multi-pay run commit of pay runs with mutual employees
Loads when you select the Require recalculation after committing pay runs with multiple
employees checkbox. Select this checkbox to configure automatic recalculation after the lock
without the need to review before committing. This allows sequential pay runs to be committed
seamlessly.
Delivery Package Assignment by Primary Org Only
Select this checkbox to assign delivery packages based strictly on primary org assignment only.
This applies to US and Canadian print file delivery package assignments.
Calculate Canadian WCB based on Primary Work Location Only
(Canada only) Checkbox that instructs that application to calculate WCB for Canadian employees
based on primary work location only.

-- 210 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 211 of 0
Use Employee Full Legal Name (First M Last Suffix) as name on check (US only)
(US only) Select this checkbox to configure checks to display employees' full legal names on
checks using the format, First M Last Suffix. So, for example, an employee named William Henry
Walsh would appear as "William H Walsh" on the check.
Use Employee Full Legal Name (First M Last Suffix) on Canadian Earning Statements and Checks
(Canada only) Select this checkbox to display the employee's full legal name on online earning
statements, printed checks, printed direct deposit advices, and Electronic Funds Transfers (EFTs)
using this format: first name + middle name initial + last name + suffix. For example, an employee
named Gabin Sima Hinrichs would appear as "Gabin S Hinrichs" on the check.
Note: When this client property is selected and saved, the legal name feature is turned on
permanently.
Use Work Assignment instead of Project Address for Local Taxes
Select this checkbox to assign local wages and taxes to be based on the employee's primary
work assignment or primary resident location and not be based on the default labor project codes
used for trailing taxation. If selected, you must apply earnings to the local taxes in the Apply Taxes
Rule. See Payroll Policy Rule Types.
Display WFM-Generated Rates on Non Primary Legal Entity Statements (US only)
(US only) Select this checkbox to display WFM-generated rates on non-primary legal entity
earnings statements.
Superannuation Default Contribution Rate (%)
(Australia only) Field for the value that is populated in the Contribution value field of the
Superannuation contribution funds section in the Payroll > Superannuation screen of People. This
field is populated when the record is generated by the Superannuation Standard Choice form and
is set to 10.5% by default.
Override employer’s default fund assignment rule
(Australia only). Select the By legal entity of employee’s work location option in this drop-down list
to update the employer’s default fund assignment with the employee's effective primary work
assignment legal entity. By selecting this setting, you opt-in automatically to the default fund
assignment by legal entity for the Superannuation Standard Choice form and Superannuation
Voluntary Contribution form in the Forms Library. To use the employer’s default fund assignment,
leave this field blank (default option).
Enable STP Phase 2

-- 211 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 212 of 0
(Australia only) Checkbox to turn on the STP Phase 2 option when switching from STP Phase 1 to
Phase 2. Phase 2 captures and employee's tax and superannuation reporting obligations for ATO
compliance. See STP Phase 2.
Single ABA file for multiple legal entities (AUS)
(Australia only) Checkbox to generate a single ABA file so that details of all legal entities are
available in a single file. Leave the checkbox cleared to generate the ABA file as one file per legal
entity. See Configure Multiple Bank Accounts Per Legal Entity.
Enable automatic MCB check for all employees (AUS)
(Australia only) Checkbox to opt-in automatically to apply the maximum super contribution base
(MCB) for all employees, with the following options:
Selected (default): When you run the pay run calculate step, Dayforce shows a warning
message and doesn’t calculate the employer’s superannuation contribution for employees
who have reached their MCB cap in the pay period when either of the following applies:
The employee doesn’t have an effective superannuation rule for the pay period in the
Payroll > Superannuation screen in People for the relevant pay period, or
The employee has an effective superannuation rule for the pay period with the Apply
quarterly max base cap for ER superannuation checkbox selected.
Cleared: Dayforce doesn’t perform the automatic MCB check. Instead, MCB handling is
driven only by the employee’s settings in the Payroll > Superannuation screen in People,
including the Apply quarterly max base cap for ER superannuation check.
Generate SAFF File Sex Code based on (AUS)
(Australia only) Drop-down list to control how Dayforce determines which code to use to report on
employee gender in the SAFF file. Options are:
Assigned Sex and then Gender Identity
Assigned Sex only
Gender Identity and then Assigned Sex
Gender Identity only
Provide HSBC BPP payment set (separate with comma if more than one)
(New Zealand only) Field to hold one or multiple payment set strings to create a correct bank file
on pay run commit. This field is mandatory when using the bank file format, HSBC NZ BPP. See
Bank Accounts for New Zealand Organisations to set up a bank account record using the HSBC
NZ BPP format.
A valid payment set is a three digit alphanumeric string. For example, HS1. Some businesses may
anticipate generating more than one bank file on a single pay run commit. For example, when

-- 212 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 213 of 0
employees working for legal entity A and legal entity B are paid in the same pay run, and both
legal entities are linked with a bank account that uses the HSBC NZ BPP format, enter the
payment set for each legal entity in the same field, separated by commas. This step ensures that
the bank files for legal entity A and legal entity B picks up different payment sets, such as HS1,
HS2.
Note: This setting does not apply to the payment files generated using the Payroll > Post Commit
Management, in the New Zealand Third Party Payments tab. See Third-Party Payments for New
Zealand Payees for information on third party payment files in the HSBC NZ BPP format.
Bank file transmission to SFTP (ANZ)
(Australia and New Zealand only) Drop-down list to configure client properties for bank file
transmission for the selected country. Select Australia, New Zealand, or both options, depending
on your business need.
Disable Convert to Whole Minutes for Payroll Accrual Payout Balance
Note: Service role only.
When Yes is selected for this client property, accrued hours are paid out as-is without rounding to
the nearest minute. The feature helps prevent having partial hours left over in the balance. By
default, the client property is set to No.
Accrued balances in this feature must be configured in the following ways:
Balances must use hours as their unit of measure, as configured in Payroll Setup >
Balances.
Accrued earnings are configured to be paid out at termination. In Payroll Setup > Earnings
and Deductions, select the Automatically Pay Out Balance On Termination checkbox for the
earning in the Balances subtab.
Show Year End Form Banner
Select this checkbox to show a banner in the Earnings screen of the Dayforce Mobile app that
employees can tap to view year end forms when they’re available.
Dayforce Wallet
Dayforce Wallet functionality must be explicitly added to your instance of Dayforce in System
Admin > Client Properties.
Enable Dayforce Wallet
Select the country of the organization to add the functionality to use the Dayforce Wallet Card as
an instant issue payroll card to disburse on-demand payments when your instance of Dayforce is

-- 213 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 214 of 0
configured to use Dayforce Wallet.
Enable On-Demand Pay
Select the country of the organization to add Dayforce Wallet functionality to Dayforce. This is
required to configure your instance of Dayforce to use Dayforce Wallet.
Display Manager Authorized Flag for On-Demand Pay
Support Users only. Checkbox to select to configure Dayforce to only consider WFM manager-
approved timesheets when calculating available amounts for on-demand pay requests.
Reporting
The client properties in the Reporting section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client
Properties control some aspects of the ad hoc reporting functionality in Dayforce.
Enable Dataset Pagination in Analytics Data Connector
Select this checkbox to enable pagination when retrieving a dataset in Analytics Data Connector.
Maximum page size for Analytics Data Connector (select any value from 32 MB to 2000 MB)
Enter a value in megabytes to set a maximum page size for retrieving datasets in Analytics Data
Connector.
Mandatory PGP encryption for ADC
Select this checkbox to make PGP encryption mandatory for all GET dataset calls in Analytics
Data Connector.
Apply No Lock on Report Preview mode
Select this checkbox to have Dayforce run the NOLOCK hint when previewing a report. When the
checkbox is selected, Dayforce will run the NOLOCK hint when previewing a report. Selecting this
checkbox mitigates the likelihood of Dayforce hanging due to resource retrieval issues.
When cleared, Dayforce doesn't run the NOLOCK hint when previewing a report. Clearing this
checkbox increases the likelihood of Dayforce hanging when previewing a report.
Refresh Denormalized Tables Job Timeout
The number selected here determines how many minutes the Refresh Denormalized Tables
background job runs before it times out.
Reporting Decimal Precision
Select a number between one and five to set your decimal precision value in reports.

-- 214 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 215 of 0
Industry (for Measures Benchmark)
Select an industry to use as a benchmark comparison in Measures.
Benefits
This topic contains information on the client properties that you must configure in the Benefits
section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties.
Benefits Cutover Date
Determines the date at which eligibility is calculated for events generated in the past. When an
event is processed based on the workflow form or the forms included in the benefits enrollment,
Dayforce uses the later of the following dates to calculate eligibility:
The event date
The configured Benefits Cutover Date
In addition, Dayforce prevents users from entering an election's effective start date in the Benefits
> Benefit Elections screen in People before the benefits cutover date.
Important: If your organization uses the Benefits Cutover Date client property, Dayforce doesn't
assign employees who were hired before the cutover date to a PPACA calendar. See Assign
Periods.
Enable COBRA Provider Subscriber Tracking
Controls whether Dayforce tracks subscribers, based on the following logic:
If the employee's coverage is included in the COBRA event, the employee is assigned as
the Subscriber.
If a COBRA event is generated for one or more dependents and the employee isn’t included
in the event, the oldest dependent included in the event that loses coverage is assigned as
the Subscriber.
Only one Subscriber is assigned per COBRA event, unless the employee's eldest
dependents share a birth date. In this case, both dependents are assigned as subscribers.
If the COBRA event is assigned the “Not a COBRA Event” Reason, Dayforce doesn't
include the event record in the evaluation and a Subscriber isn’t assigned.
Select the checkbox, and Dayforce tracks subscriber information and shows an indicator in
employee records shown in Benefits Administration > COBRA. Clear the checkbox, and Dayforce
doesn't track subscribers.
Enable the use of the 'Exclude scheduled amount for 27/53 pay date' parameter for benefit
elections

-- 215 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 216 of 0
Controls whether Dayforce Benefits take into account the Exclude Scheduled Amount for 27/53
Pay Date property in earning and deduction definitions when calculating benefits per pay
amounts. Select the checkbox, and Benefits respects the setting of the property in the deduction
or earning definition. If the earning or deduction is configured to exclude the 27th and 53rd pay
dates and the benefits client property is selected, the 27th and 53rd pay periods are also
excluded in per pay amount calculations when applicable. Keep the checkbox cleared, and the
Benefits module ignores the property on the earning or deduction and calculates based on 27 or
53 pay periods when applicable.
If you have manually configured benefits per pay amounts to take into account the 27th or 53rd
pay periods, you should leave this checkbox cleared. The checkbox is cleared by default.
Important: Imputed income and per pay prorations are calculated based on 27 or 53 pay periods
in applicable years regardless of whether mapped earning and deduction definitions are
configured to exclude those pay dates in payroll calculations.
Enable the use of the 'Subject To Re-enrollment' parameter for benefit plans (Days)
Enter the number of days within which employees must be rehired to automatically re-enroll in their
previous benefits plan before termination. For example, if this field is set to 90, employees must be
rehired within 90 days to automatically re-enroll in their previous benefits plan. The Automatic Re-
Enrollment Allowed checkbox in the General tab of plans in the Benefits Setup > Plans and
Options work based on the value set in this field, when selected.
When configured, Dayforce uses the value defined in this field during benefits eligibility workflow
recalculations to determine enrollment assignment. If an employee is rehired within the specified
number of days and is subject to re-enrollment, Dayforce doesn’t assign new hire enrollments,
even if the employee is otherwise eligible. Instead, Dayforce applies re-enrollment rules based on
prior benefit elections and plan configuration. This behavior ensures that employees within the re-
enrollment period are processed according to re-enrollment rules rather than new hire enrollment
rules.
Enable Spouse Coverage Verification
Controls whether Dayforce shows the Offered Medical Coverage Elsewhere field in the Current
Dependent Information form.
Use Pay Group Country for Benefit Country Eligibility
Determines benefits eligibility based on the country associated with an employee’s pay group
instead of their primary address. When you select this checkbox, Dayforce uses the country
linked to the employee’s pay group. When you clear the checkbox, Dayforce defaults to the
country associated with the employee’s primary address. The employee's benefit country uses the

-- 216 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 217 of 0
existing eligibility criteria for plans, options, rates, and enrollments to determine if the employee
qualifies.
Example: An employee with a pay group country of the United States and a primary address
country of France begins the benefits enrollment process. When the Use Pay Group Country for
Benefit Country Eligibility checkbox is selected, Dayforce evaluates the employee’s eligibility
based on the United States as the benefit country. As a result, the employee qualifies for benefit
options available in the United States.
Enable moving employee to next eligible tiered option when dependent ages out
When this checkbox is selected, if an employee loses coverage when their dependent reaches
the maximum age limit, Dayforce moves the employee from the current plan option to the next
lower tier option. The coverage in the new plan option starts the next day after coverage ends in
the previous plan option. Additionally, Dayforce generates a COBRA event for the dependent who
aged out.
Dayforce moves employees through eligible tiers in the following order:
Employee & Family
Employee & Children
Employee & 5 Dependents
Employee & 4 Dependents
Employee & 3 Dependents
Employee & 2 Dependents
Employee & 2 or more Dependents
Employee & 1 Dependent
Employee & Child
Employee & Spouse/Legal Partner
Employee & 1 or more Dependents
Employee
If employees are enrolled in pre-tax or after-tax health plan options with the same plan subtype
and become ineligible because a dependent reaches the maximum age limit, Dayforce ends their
current benefit elections and transfers the employee and dependents to the next eligible options
with the same taxability settings.
Example: An employee is enrolled in the following plan options:
EE + Domestic Partner + Child (Pre-Tax)
EE + Domestic Partner + Child (After-Tax)
Their child dependent exceeds the maximum age limit. When the recalculation task runs,
Dayforce ends the elections and transfers the employee to the plan:

-- 217 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 218 of 0
Employee Only (Pre-Tax)
The employee isn’t moved to an after-tax option because an equivalent Employee Only (After-Tax)
option is unavailable.
Hide Dayforce Your Tax banner
When this checkbox is selected, the application hides the Dayforce Your Tax banner in the Year
End Forms tab of Earnings.
Suppress printing of employee 1095-C forms
When this checkbox is selected:
If the ACA year end filing doesn’t include any employees who lived in Washington, DC,
during the filing year, Dayforce doesn’t generate or send a print file to the Print Center.
If the ACA year end filing includes employees who lived in Washington, DC, Dayforce
generates a print file only for those employees who haven’t opted for electronic delivery.
Position Management
The Position Management section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties
contains the properties that you can use to enable the Position Management functionality in
Dayforce.
Enable Position Assignments
With this property enabled, users can assign employees as position occupants and update their
occupancy details.
Auto populate termination date as the expected vacancy date on employee's positions
With this property enabled, an employee's termination date is automatically populated on the
positions they occupied as the expected vacancy date of those positions.
Respect PM access authorizations on position change form
Restricts the positions that are available on the Position Change form so that the user can see only
positions that they have access to according to their access authorizations. If the user has only
manager view access, the form shows only positions under theirs in the hierarchy. If the user has
administrator view access, the form shows all available positions.
Derive Management Assignments from Primary Position Assignment Only
Determines how management assignments are handled when a manager moves into an interim
role as their primary position assignment. By default, the checkbox is cleared. The manager

-- 218 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 219 of 0
keeps their management assignments from their home position, and direct reports from the interim
position are added. With the checkbox selected, management assignments come only from the
interim position because it’s the manager’s primary assignment. Management assignments from
their home position are end-dated before the interim role begins.
Enable FTE Proration
When this client property is selected, the full-time equivalent ratio in an employee’s profile
determines if the employee is eligible. In Benefits Setup > Eligibility for the Employee Qualifier, use
the Min FT Equivalent Ratio and Max FT Equivalent Ratio fields to set the minimum and maximum
full-time equivalent ratios.
The full-time equivalent ratio is calculated using the following formula:
FT Equivalent Ratio = Normal Weekly Hours / FT Weekly Hours
You can find these values for an employee in People, in the Employment > Employment Settings
screen, in the Employment Status tab.
An employee is eligible if their full-time equivalent ratio on the effective date is as follows:
Equal to or greater than the Min FT Equivalent Ratio, and
Equal to or less than the Max FT Equivalent Ratio.
If the Enable FTE Proration client property isn’t enabled, Dayforce ignores eligibility based on the
minimum and maximum full-time equivalent ratios.
See Compensation Information.
Security
The Security section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties contains the
properties for enabling the security-related functionality in Dayforce
Admin-assisted password reset option
Controls whether Dayforce sends the user an email with their new password, a password reset
link, or a password reset template when you reset a password for a user.
Login Assist Message
The message that Dayforce shows to users who are having difficulty logging in and click the Can't
access your account? link on the login page.
Password Reset Assist Message

-- 219 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 220 of 0
The message that Dayforce shows to users who try to reset their password without having set up
their security questions. Part of this message will let them know that they need to set up their
security questions, but you can customize the rest of the message. By default, this message is
"Please contact your system administrator."
Enable Email Verification
Select this checkbox and Dayforce sends verification emails when a user creates or edits an email
address in various locations throughout Dayforce with the Alerts checkbox selected. It also
enables the Verify Email button for email addresses with this checkbox selected.
Enable Password Reset (requires email verification)
Controls whether users can request a password reset.
Select the checkbox to allow users to request password resets via email; users also need the
Profile > Profile Menu > Settings > Security > Password Reset role feature assigned to their role to
select their security question and answers. To reset passwords, users are asked to provide their
answers to their security questions.
Clear the checkbox to deactivate this functionality.
Note: If you select this checkbox you must also select the Enable Email Verification checkbox,
because a verified email address is required for password reset.
Email Verification Time Limit
Defines the expiration date for the email verification message that's sent to employees, and allows
administrators to select from one to five days.
Moreover, the number of days selected is shown in the content of the verification message:
Login Algorithm Custom Format
Defines a custom format for generating new employee user names. This field gives your
organization the flexibility to use its preferred custom format, instead of a predefined one (that is,
F.Last, LAST.FIRST). For example, you can create a custom format that includes the employee's
first initial, followed by last name and then employee number. For more information about creating
custom formats, see Create Custom Login Algorithms.
Maximum number of automatic verification requests

-- 220 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 221 of 0
The number of times Dayforce sends an email verification request to an email address because of
the site-level Send Email Verification background job. This prevents Dayforce from repeatedly
sending verification messages to addresses when they’re incorrect or no longer in use.
For example, the Send Email Verification background job runs three times, each time sending a
verification request to the same email address. With this property set to 3, Dayforce doesn't send
a message to this address the next time that the job runs.
Important: This property doesn't affect users manually sending an email verification request. As
such, there continues to be no limit on how many times users can manually trigger a verification
request. Continuing the example above, while the email address will no longer receive an
automatic message the next time that the Send Email Verification job runs, users can still manually
trigger the message.
Enable first time access email
Select the checkbox to enable first time access email messages. By default, the checkbox is
cleared.
First Time Access Email Sender Name
The message author's name.
First Time Access Email Reply To Address
The reply-to email address.
First Time Access Email Expiration in Day(s)
Specifies how long before the link in the email expires. By default, this is set to 1 for security
reasons, but you can enter a value between 1 and 5 days.
Important: Although the email link's expiration can be extended for up to 5 days, doing so could
present a security risk, allowing more time for someone other than the intended hire to use the link
and access your system. As an alternative, you could increase the number of email delivery
attempts (using the First Time Access Email Maximum Delivery Attempts field) as a potentially
more secure way of giving people more time to log in to Dayforce, because each delivery
provides a new access link.
First Time Access Email Maximum Delivery Attempts
Specifies how many times to attempt delivery of the email. By default, this is set to 5, but you can
enter a value between 0 and 99.
Maximum number of first time access verification attempts

-- 221 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 222 of 0
The maximum number of attempts an onboarding employee can make before they are locked out
of Dayforce access verification. The employee is asked to enter the last four digits of their phone
number. You can select an attempt value between 1 and 3.
Enable Account Recovery Assistant (Requires password reset)
Enables the Account Recovery Assistant, a feature that is shown when users log in and are
missing security questions or a verified email on their profile. Using this feature, users can add this
information without having to go to their profile.
Disable Skipping of Account Recovery Assistant
(Only applicable when the Enable Account Recovery Assistant (Requires password reset)
checkbox in the same location is selected.) Select this checkbox for the Account Recovery
Assistant to show the Close button instead of the Skip button, so that employees must complete
their password reset information before they can access Dayforce.
When the Disable Skipping of Account Recovery Assistant checkbox is selected, users who don’t
have an employee profile in Dayforce (for example, system administrators) will still see the Skip
button, which they can click to continue to access Dayforce.
Block Biometric Logins into ESS
Select this checkbox and the Dayforce Touch Clock disallows employees from logging in to the
clock’s self-service mode with biometric verification.
Important: When this client property is enabled and the clock is configured to require biometric
verification, the clock prevents employees from logging in to self-service mode using both
biometric and password verification. This effectively disables self-service mode, because
employees can't enter a password to verify their identity when logging in. To allow employees to
log in to self-service using a password while this client property is enabled, you must deactivate
biometric verification in the clock’s config file, which also removes biometric verification from other
functions on your clock.
Reset Password Request Attempt Timespan (in minutes)
Defines the timespan used to limit the amount of reset password requests that can occur within a
specific time frame. If the number of reset password requests exceeds the number that you
defined in the Reset Password Request Maximum Attempts in Preset Timespan setting and these
requests occur within the timespan you defined, Dayforce shows an error message. By default,
this setting is set to 30 minutes.
Reset Password Request Maximum Attempts in Preset Timespan

-- 222 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 223 of 0
Defines the number of reset password requests that can be sent in the timespan that you defined
in the Reset Password Request Attempt Timespan (in minutes) setting. In the drop-down list, you
can select a numerical value from 3 to 10. By default, this setting is set to a maximum of 5
attempts.
Mobile App session timeout due to inactivity (in seconds, minimum 120)
Defines the number of seconds a mobile app session can remain idle before it times out and
closes due to inactivity.
UI Modernization
The UI Modernization section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties contains
the properties for enabling the updated user interface (UI) that’s available for these Dayforce
features:
My Onboarding
Earnings
Organization Chart
Profile
Employee Benefits
Enabled
Controls whether the updated UI is enabled in your Dayforce environment. If you select this
checkbox, you must also select one or more features in the New Dayforce Experience client
property.
New Dayforce Experience
Select one or more features in the drop-down list to enable the updated UI experience in those
features for your organization.
Group Members Generation
The Group Members Generation section of the Properties tab in System Admin > Client Properties
contains a property related to group member generation in HR Admin > Groups.
Include True rehires (employees who have been hired before and are being hired again) when
only Rehire criteria is used
When selected, Dayforce considers only true rehires when determining eligibility for groups that
use rehire date criteria without hire date criteria. This client property overrides the Include True
rehires when only Rehire criteria is used setting in HR Admin > Groups, so that only true rehires

-- 223 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 224 of 0
are considered even if the Include True rehires when only Rehire criteria is used checkbox is
cleared.
Note: True rehires are employees who left the organization and then returned. They have a
different hire date than original hire date in the Employment > Employment Settings screen in
People.
Billing and Support
The Dayforce Billing and Support Information properties deal with billing and support details for
US and Canadian clients.
Important: This tab is accessible only if you are logged in as a Service role. Typically restricted to
Dayforce support and services personnel, a Service role must be configured through the Dayforce
database to access and modify the data in the Billing and Support tab.
Oracle ID
The identification number for US Oracle clients.
Oracle Contract Number
The contract number for US Oracle clients.
Billing ID Canada
The billing identifier for Canadian clients.
Netsuite ID
The identifier for Canadian Netsuite clients.
Support Team
Defines the way in which calls, emails, and support tickets are routed across multiple Dayforce
support teams.
Geographic Locations
Geographic locations are used in Dayforce when configuring levels of your organization and
defining minimum wages by region.
You can review and add geographic locations in System Admin > Geo Locations. By default,
Dayforce has a number of countries and states (or provinces, depending on the country) already
populated.
You can't add countries or states. You can add cities where your organization operates.

-- 224 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 225 of 0
See the following topics:
View Locations
Add Cities
View Locations
In System Admin > Geo Locations, you can browse locations by expanding and collapsing
countries and states in the list.
To find a specific location, click Filter. Dayforce displays the filter criteria:
Use the drop-down lists and fields to specify your filter parameters, and then click Apply Filter.
Add Cities
If your organization operates in a city that's not already listed, you need to add it to the list.
To add a city:
1. Go to System Admin > Geo Locations.
2. Select a state. See View Locations.
3. Click Add City.
4. Note: Dayforce doesn't enable this button until you select a state.
4. Enter the city’s details.
5. Click Save.
After you configure the necessary cities, you can do the following:
Assign them to levels of the organization in Organization > Org Setup (see Configure
Locations)
Define minimum wages for them in Pay Setup > Minimum Wages (see Minimum Wage
Configuration)
Configure Clock Entry Validations

-- 225 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 226 of 0
In System Admin > Clocking Sequence Validation, you can configure the clock entry validations
that Dayforce performs on clock entries recorded on the Clock+ and in Work > Time Clock. The
Dayforce Touch Clock also uses these validations, but only when operating in online mode, which
means that the clock accepts all clock entries and transmits them to Dayforce for validation.
Alternatively, when operating in standalone mode, the Dayforce Touch Clock performs the
validations specified in its configuration file instead.
Each validation listed below has the following settings:
Active: Select this checkbox to configure Dayforce to perform that validation. Dayforce only
performs clock entry validations with this checkbox selected.
Execution Order: Enter a number that represents the order Dayforce performs that
validation, relative to other validations. For example, Dayforce performs a validation with
“10” in this field before one with “15.”
Apply to Offline Time Entries: Select this checkbox if Dayforce should apply the validation to
clock entries that were recorded when the clock was offline.
Apply to Supervisor Time Entries: Select this checkbox if Dayforce should apply the
validation to clock entries that are recorded by supervisors.
Dayforce can perform the following validations:
Biometric Consent Validation
Validates that the employee clocking in with biometric verification consented to submit their
fingerprint templates after reviewing the legal disclaimer. If the employee declined to consent to
the submission of their fingerprint templates, the clock entry is rejected.
Biometric Validation
For clocks using biometric verification, validates that the employee’s finger scan matches the
template saved in the database.
Break End Validation
Validates employees’ break end times when they clock back in from a break. When enabled, the
clock doesn’t allow employees to clock in from a break when they aren’t scheduled to.
Break Length Validation
Validates employees’ break lengths. When enabled, the clock doesn’t allow employees to clock in
from a break if the break they took didn’t meet the scheduled duration.
Break Start Validation
Validates employees’ break start times when they clock out for a break. When enabled, the clock
doesn’t allow employees to clock out for a break unless they are scheduled for one.

-- 226 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 227 of 0
Clock Entry Order Validation
Validates the order in which employees perform clock entries. For example, when enabled, the
clock doesn’t allow employees to clock out before they’ve clocked in for the day.
Consecutive Clock Entry Validation
Filters out consecutive clock entries of the same type time stamped within a specified time (for
example, when two directionless clock entries occur within a short time). The times are specified
in the application when time entry policies are set up.
Device Group Validation
Validates that the employee is eligible to perform clock entries using clocks in that device group.
Device Org Unit Validation
Validates that the employee is allowed to perform clock entries at the clock based on their work
assignment.
Directionless Clocking Validation
When the clock is using directionless clocking mode, this validation resolves directionless clock
entries to their “assumed” clock entry type.
Docket Validation
Validates the docket that the employees select when recording docket transfers.
Duplicate Clock Entry Validation
Validates that there aren’t any duplicate clock entries with the same type and time.
Employee Badge Validation
Validates employees badge numbers.
Employee Docket Validation
Validates that an employee is assigned to the docket they select when recording a docket
transfer.
Employee Job Assignment Validation
Validates that an employee is assigned to the job assignment they select when recording a job
assignment transfer.
Employee Location Validation

-- 227 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 228 of 0
Validates that an employee is assigned to the location they select when recording a location
transfer.
Employee PIN Validation
Validates the employee and supervisor PINs. This validation is used only if the clock is configured
to prompt for PINs in the <system> section.
Employee Project Validation
Validates that an employee is assigned to the project that they select when recording a project
transfer.
Employee Status Validation
Validates that the employee performing a clock entry has the necessary time entry policy
assigned and is active in the application.
Employee Transfer Validation
Validates that an employee can transfer to the work assignment that they selected for a work
transfer.
In With Transfer Validation
Validates that an employee can clock in and transfer to the work assignment they selected for a
work transfer.
Job Assignment Transfer Validation
Validates that an employee is permitted to record a job assignment transfer for the specified job
assignment.
Job Assignment Validation
Validates that a job assignment with the specified transfer code exists.
Labor Metrics Code Assigned Validation
Validates that an employee is assigned to the labor metrics code they select when recording a
labor metrics transfer.
Labor Metrics Code Validation
Validates that an employee entered a valid labor metrics code when recording a labor metrics
transfer.
Labor Metrics Time Entry Policy Validation

-- 228 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 229 of 0
Validates that the labor metrics type specified by the employee during a labor metrics transfer is
assigned to the time entry policy.
Labor Metrics Type Validation
Validates that the employee entered a valid labor metrics type when recording a labor metrics
transfer.
Location Validation
Validates that a location with the specified transfer code exists.
Manager Validation
Validates whether missed clock entries that were submitted by employees on Dayforce clocks in
self-service mode were approved or denied by their manager in Approvals.
Meal End Validation
Validates employees’ meal end times when they clock back in from a meal. When enabled, the
clock doesn’t allow employees to clock in from a meal when they aren’t scheduled to.
Meal Length Validation
Validates employees’ meal lengths. When enabled, the clock doesn’t allow employees to clock in
from a meal if the meal they took didn’t meet the scheduled duration.
Meal Start Validation
Validates employees’ meal start times when they clock out for a meal. When enabled, the clock
doesn’t allow employees to clock out for a meal unless they are scheduled for one.
Meal Subsidy Validation
Validates the meal subsidy entered by the employee on the clock based on your organization’s
time entry policy.
Multi Transfer Validation
Validates the multiple transfer codes that employees enter.
Network Location Validation
Validates the IP address associated with clock entries. This must be selected if you want to restrict
clock entries by IP address.
Out With Meal Break Validation

-- 229 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 230 of 0
Validates the information employees record when completing out with meal break clock entries,
and ensures that the meals and breaks the employees recorded fall within the shift times.
Pay Period Locked Validation
Validates that a clock entry doesn’t occur during a locked pay period.
Pay Period Transmitted Validation
Validates that a clock entry doesn’t occur during a transmitted pay period.
Picture Validation
For Dayforce Touch Clocks configured to use picture capture, validates that the clock was able to
capture a picture of the employee with their clock entry.
Note: The clock itself doesn’t compare the employee’s picture with the picture stored in the
database. Managers must manually compare the pictures in the application using the Clock Entry
Audits feature or in the Clock Data panel in the Timesheets feature.
Project Validation
Validates the project that the employees select when recording project transfers.
Quantity Validation
Validates the quantity that employees select when recording a docket transfer.
Shift End Validation
Validates employees’ shift end times when they clock out. When enabled, the clock doesn’t allow
employees to clock out for a shift if it violates their time entry policy (for example, clocking out too
early).
Shift Start Validation
Validates employees’ shift start times when they clock in. When enabled, the clock doesn’t allow
employees to clock in for a shift unless they’re scheduled.
Start System Validation
Validates that the clock time is correct.
Supervisor Badge Validation
Validates that the badge swiped to enter into supervisor mode belongs to a supervisor.

-- 230 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 231 of 0
Supervisor mode is used by managers, or other users set up as supervisors, to override other
clock validations. An example of this is clocking in on an employee’s behalf if they weren’t
scheduled, or if they’re trying to clock in later than the clock is configured to allow.
Supervisor Shift Override Validation
Not a validation, but used to return a message to the clock stating that a shift override is in effect.
Tip Type Validation
Validates the tip type that the user selects when recording tips.
Transfer Validation
Validates the transfer code employees enter.
Unordered Clock Entry Validation
Validates the order in which employees perform clock entries and rejects them if they’re out of
order. For example, when enabled, the application verifies that the employee didn’t clock out
before they clocked in for the day.
Encryption Methods
In System Admin > Encryption, you can configure encryption methods to be used by Dayforce
features such as exports and background jobs. Three encryption types are available: PGP, DES,
and Triple DES. Each have different requirements, depending on which type you’re configuring.
For DES or Triple DES encryption, you need to enter values in the Key and Initialization Vector
fields. For PGP encryption, you need to enter a value in the PGP PKey field.
If you’re using PGP encryption, and you’re importing files, make sure that the import files use only
the .csv extension, not the .pgp extension, or the files won’t load. See File Requirements.
For best results, add only one encryption method per encryption key.
Important: DES and Triple DES are provided for legacy integrations with environments that aren't
capable of using PGP. These encryption types shouldn’t be used for new integrations, because
these encryption algorithms are no longer considered secure. Use PGP encryption whenever
possible.
See the following topics:
Configure Encryption Methods
Configure Encryption by Background Job
Configure Encryption Methods

-- 231 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 232 of 0
In System Admin > Encryption, in the Encryption Methods tab, you can configure encryption
methods that can be used when you define export definitions.
To set up an encryption method:
1. Go to System Admin > Encryption.
2. In the Encryption Methods tab, click Add.
3. In the Name field, enter a name for the new encryption method.
4. In the Type drop-down list, select an encryption type.
5. Enter encryption information, depending on the encryption type:
DES and Triple DES require a key and an initialization vector.
PGP requires a key.
6. Click Save.
After you create and configure the encryption methods, you can select them as options when you
create export options. See Configure Export Options.
Configure Encryption by Background Job
In System Admin > Encryption, in the Encryption by Background Job tab, you can configure
encryption methods to be applied to exports associated with a selected background job. PGP
encryption is recommended.
You can configure one encryption method to be used for all background jobs by following the
steps below and selecting All in the Background Job drop-down list. Alternatively, you can select
a job from the list to configure the method only for that job. When you set up an encryption
method for a specific job, then that method overrides the method that was created with All as the
job name.
To configure an encryption method for a background job:
1. Go to System Admin > Encryption.
2. Click the Encryption by Background Job tab, then click Add.
3. In the Name field, enter a name for the new encryption method.
4. In the Background Job drop-down list, select a job name, or select All to apply the
encryption method to all background job exports.
5. In the Type drop-down list, select an encryption type.
6. Enter encryption information, depending on the encryption type:
DES and Triple DES require a key and an initialization vector.
PGP requires a key.
7. Click Save.
Export Definitions

-- 232 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 233 of 0
Dayforce contains functionality that you can use to export data from Dayforce into your
organization's other internal systems. For example, you can export employee information in bulk to
use for reporting or analytics in another system.
The export framework uses export definition files, which are in XML format. In the XML of the
export definition, you can specify the output details including the file name, parameters for the
contents of the file, and formatting.
Your Dayforce administrator will be given access to a secure FTP site where exported files are
placed in subdirectories based on export type. You can define the export file's name in the export
definition XML. Some XML templates are provided and you can use one of them when creating
your export definition. Users will need some understanding of XML to define the export definition.
It’s recommended that the file name include a timestamp to avoid overwriting any previous files.
See the following topics:
View Export Definitions
Create an Export Definition
Audit Information for Export Definitions
Configure Export Options
Filter HR Export
View Export Definitions
You can view data export definitions in Integrations > Export Definitions. The left side of the
screen shows a list of existing definitions, sorted into custom and system categories, and
subcategories based on the type of export. To refine the list, click Filter and add values for the
following filters: Name, Description, Export Type, and Export Options.
Create an Export Definition
In Integrations > Export Definitions, you can create export definitions to establish how data is
exported from Dayforce. When you build an export definition, you can start with a copy of an
existing one, or you can create one from scratch. You can use one of the XML templates that have
been provided to correspond with integrations in Dayforce such as the benefits export, or you can
edit the XML to suit your needs.
To create an export definition:
1. Go to Integrations > Export Definitions.
2. In the Export Definitions tab, do one of the following:
If the export definition you’re adding is similar to an existing one, click Copy and then
follow the rest of the steps below to edit the copy.
If you want to create a new export definition, click Add.

-- 233 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 234 of 0
3. Enter a name and description for the export definition.
4. (Optional) Select an option in the Export Option drop-down list. The options are configured
in the Export Options tab. See Configure Export Options.
Send the file to a specific SFTP other than the default one
Encrypt the file
Include headers
Include options related to Dayforce Link
5. (Optional) Select an option in the Pay Group drop-down list. The export includes data for
only the selected pay group.
6. Select an option in the Export Type drop-down list that corresponds to the type of data you’ll
be exporting. For more information about the different data export types listed, download
the Dayforce Interface Specifications ZIP file and see the files in the Exports folder.
7. (Optional) Click the Browse XML Templates link to view the XML templates that correspond
to the export type that you have selected. Complete this step if you want to use a
predefined template that corresponds to a specific integration (for example, benefit exports
for chosen vendors), or if you want to use a template as a base for your own definition.
8. (Optional) Select an option in the Template drop-down list and click Apply XML Template.
9. Edit the XML as required, and then click Validate. Dayforce shows any validation issues in
the Problems panel.
10. Note: Dayforce exports have a maximum row size of 8060 bytes. This validation looks only
at the structure of the XML and not at the expected row size for the export. You can avoid
failure of your export by including only the necessary columns in the export definition.
10. Click Save.
Audit Information for Export Definitions
Dayforce tracks all changes that are made to export definitions. You can view a list of the changes
in the Audit tab of the Export Definitions tab of Integrations > Export Definitions. When you go to
the Audit tab, a list of changes for the selected definition is shown with the date and time of the
change and the name of the user who made the change. You can click a row in the list to view
more details.
If a change was made by an employee, you can click the icon next to the person's name to view
more information in their employee card.
Configure Export Options
This section describes how to define the export options that control how Dayforce sends data
export files. Dayforce can be configured to send the files over FTP or SFTP. The export definitions
that you configure in the Export Options tab can be used for the export definitions that you
configure in the Export Definitions tab.
To create an export option:

-- 234 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 235 of 0
1. Go to Integrations > Export Definitions and click the Export Options tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a name and description for the option.
4. In the Output Type drop-down list, select the protocol to be used to send the export files to
a specific server.
Note: With Standard selected, the export files are saved on the Dayforce server and you
can't specify a server to send the export files to.
5. Select an option in the Encryption drop-down list. Encryption methods are configured in
System Admin > Encryption. See Encryption Methods.
6. If you selected an option other than Standard in the Output drop-down list:
a. Enter the server's details in the Host, Port, Login, and Password fields.
b. In the Folder field, enter the path of the folder you want export files saved in.
c. (Optional) In the Command field, enter any additional FTP or SFTP commands.
d. (Optional) Provide the key required to authenticate to the server in the SSH Key field.
7. Click Save.
Note: The options shown in the Dayforce section are used only to integrate with Dayforce
products.
To define options to integrate with other Dayforce products:
1. Select the Generate File Header checkbox to generate export files with a header.
2. Select an option in the Database Type drop-down list.
3. For exports processed by Dayforce Link, select the Generate Dayforce Link Header to
generate export files with a header.
4. Specify IDs in the Dayforce Link Recipient ID and Dayforce Link 401K Plan ID or Acct
Number fields for exports sent through the Dayforce Link. The plan ID should be a 5-digit
numeric value.
5. Select the Allow Tab Characters In Dayforce Link File checkbox to transmit the pay run
export data using a tab-delimited file.
6. Click Save.
Update Export Options
You can update custom export options in the Export Options tab of Integrations > Export
Definitions. System export options are read-only and can't be updated. If you want to update a
system export option, you can make a copy of it and edit the copy.
To update an export option, select it in the list of the left side of the screen and update the settings
as required and click Save. You can click Refresh to revert the changes you have made since the
last time you clicked Save.

-- 235 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 236 of 0
Note: To void the Password or SSH Key, you must erase the current one and then click Save. To
edit the Password or SSH Key, erase the current one first before adding the new one.
Filter HR Export
In the Export Definitions tab of Integrations > Export Definitions, the MappingDefinitions tag
in the XML code of export definitions supports the eq (equals) operator. You can use this operator
to filter the HR Export to include only employees who are assigned a record with a specific value.
For example, an organization requires that the HR Export only includes employees who are
assigned a specific checkbox employee property and have the checkbox selected. For the export
definition to perform this filtering, the Criteria tag in the XML contains the item attribute with
the reference code of the employee property, and the op attribute contains the eq operator:
<MappingDefinitions>
<definition>
<criteriaset>
<criteria item="EmployeePropertyXrefCode35" op="eq">True</criteria>
</criteriaset>
</definition>
</MappingDefinitions>
AI Assistant Configuration
In AI Assistant Admin, you can configure several AI Assistant features to meet your organization's
requirements.
The following topics contain more information about each configuration option:
Configure Disclaimers for AI Assistant
Configure Messages for AI Assistant
Configure Content Settings for AI Assistant
Configure Disclaimers for AI Assistant
In AI Assistant Admin, in the Disclaimers tab, administrators can customize the legal disclaimer for
AI Assistant. By default, AI Assistant shows a generic disclaimer telling employees that responses
might not be specific to their terms of employment, and advising them to refer to company
policies or their contract to confirm the response. You can customize the disclaimer and add links
to relevant resources. AI Assistant disclaimers can be up to 250 characters.
Role feature access: