nagement by Job
Assignment Overview.
Compensation Details
Pay Group
A default pay group that is populated when users select this job assignment
in forms like the New Hire form and Job Requisition form. Users filling out the
form can still change the selection. Pay groups are country-specific values
that describe aspects of the pay cycle for a group of employees and are
configured in Pay Setup > Pay Group.
Pay Type
A default pay type that is populated when users select this job assignment in
forms like the New Hire form and Job Requisition form. Users filling out the
form can still change the selection. Pay types are types of payment methods
like salaried or hourly and are configured in HR Admin > Pay Type.

-- 467 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 468 of 0
Pay Class
A default pay class that is populated when users select this job assignment
in forms like the New Hire form and Job Requisition form. Users filling out
the form can still change the selection. Pay classes are categories of
employment like part-time or full-time and are configured in HR Admin > Pay
Class.
Default Target
Bonus (%)
The percentage that defines the target bonus for all employees in the job
assignment. This value is used by the Compensation module. See Configure
Target Bonuses in the Compensation Guide.
Normal Weekly
Hours
The default normal weekly hours that are populated in the corresponding
field when users select this job assignment in forms like the New Hire form
and Job Requisition form. Users filling out the form can change the
selection.
Average Daily
Hours
The default average daily hours that are populated in the corresponding
field when users select this job assignment in forms like the Job Requisition
Form. Users filling out the form can still change the selection.
Full Time
Equivalent
A numerical value between 0.00 and 1.00 that represents the workload
associated with the job assignment. For example, a value of 1.00
represents a full-time job assignment, while a value of 0.50 represents half-
time. This value is populated in the corresponding field when users select
this job assignment in forms like the New Hire form and Job Requisition
form. Users filling out the form can still change the selection.
Normal Semi
Monthly Hours
(Top)
The default hours for the respective first (top) and second (bottom) halves of
the month. The values that you enter are populated in the corresponding
fields when users select this job assignment in forms like the Job Requisition
Form. Users filling out the form can still change the selection.
Normal Semi
Monthly Hours
(Bottom)
Standard Cost
Rate
The pay rate that Dayforce uses as the hourly rate for unfilled shifts that are
associated with the job assignment when users create schedules.
Additional Details
Employment
Indicator
The default employment indicator to be populated when users select this
job assignment in forms like the Job Requisition form. Users filling out the
form can still change the selection. See Create Employment Indicators.
EEO-4 Job
Function
(US only) The job’s EEO-4 job function. The list of options is predefined and
is used for EEO-4 compliance reporting.
Workers Comp
Exempt
The checkbox to exempt the job assignment from the workers comp defined
for the job that the job assignment belongs to, and that is listed in the
Workers Comp section of the job's details.
Officer 	Indicates that the associated job assignment is an officer type.

-- 468 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 469 of 0
Executive 	Indicates that the associated job assignment is an executive type.
PPACA Full Time (US only) Indicates that employees who work the job assignment are
automatically qualified for PPACA coverage. See PPACA Setup.
Non Service Indicates that the job assignment contributes to the daily coverage
score of a location instead of the quarter-hour or service coverage.
Job Assignment -
Job Description
The job description for the job assignment. For example, you can
describe the job responsibilities and qualifications. You can also add
images, media, and links here.
Delete Jobs and Job Assignments
In the Jobs and Job Assignments tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can delete
jobs that don’t have any job assignments under them. You can also delete job assignments that
aren’t associated with a work assignment. When you delete a job assignment and click Save,
Dayforce checks if the job assignment is assigned to an active or historical work assignment. If it
is, Dayforce shows an error message indicating that the job assignment is in use and prevents the
save from completing. You can delete a job assignment if you remove it from all work assignments
or delete all of the work assignments that it’s assigned to.
Copy Jobs and Job Assignments
In the Jobs and Job Assignments tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can copy
jobs and job assignments.
When you select a job and click Copy, Dayforce adds a copy of that job under the same job
family. The job assignments under the original job aren’t carried over to the copied job.
When you select a job assignment and click Copy, Dayforce adds a copy of that job assignment
under the same job.
You can’t copy job families in the Jobs and Job Assignments tab.
Workers Comp Setup
In the Workers Comp tab of Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments, you can add workers’ comp
classification codes and assign them to the appropriate jobs. When you do this, these codes are
shown in the read-only Workers Comp section of a job's details in the Jobs and Job Assignments
tab.
The Workers Comp tab is divided into two areas. At the top of the screen, you can add records for
individual classification codes. At the bottom of the screen, there is an area where you can search
for and assign jobs to the code that is selected at the top of the screen.
Configure Workers Comp Codes

-- 469 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 470 of 0
To add workers’ comp classification codes and assign them to jobs:
1. Go to Org Setup > Jobs and Job Assignments and click the Workers Comp tab.
2. Click Add.
3. Enter a value in the Workers Comp Class Code field.
4. Enter a name and, optionally, a description.
5. Select an option in the State/Province drop-down list.
6. In the Eligible Job(s) section at the bottom of the screen, use the search field to filter the
Available column, then select the jobs that you want to make the code applicable for.
Note: You can press and hold the Ctrl key and select multiple jobs from the list.
7. Click the right arrow icon to move one or more selected jobs to the Selected list.
8. Click Save.

-- 470 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 471 of 0
Position Management Configuration
Position Management Overview
You can use Position Management to model and manage your organization hierarchy for business
and workforce planning. You can get accurate, historical, and current views of your employees
and the overall organizational structure. This approach can help you to plan for future talent
needs, find current talent gaps, and budget effectively to meet your business needs.
The first step in setting up Position Management is to create the functional structure of your
organization in Organization Designer. First, you create business units in Organization Designer
> Business Units. Business units form the functional structure of the organization that keeps track
of filled and vacant positions. The business unit hierarchy represents a functional structure that is
separate from actual locations. All of the positions in your organization are associated with a
business unit.
After you have the business unit framework of your organization in place, you can add positions in
Organization Designer > Positions. Each position represents a seat in your organization. Positions
can be filled or vacant, and they drive the organizational structure of your business, including the
management hierarchy and the overall headcount.
The tasks involved with Position Management are:
Create business units and set up the functional (business unit) org structure. See Add
Business Units.
Create positions and set up a position-based management hierarchy. See Add Positions.
Manage the positions in your organization with tasks such as updating position information,
transferring employees between positions, and terminating employees. See Manage
Positions.
Use the Recruiting module together with Position Management to recruit and hire
candidates. See Recruiting with Position Management.
Position Management and Personal Data Management
When an employee's personal information is removed from Dayforce, their name isn’t shown in
any of the Position Management features. The following list shows some of the places in the
Organization Designer > Positions feature where their information is purged or masked:
In the Audit tab of positions.
In the position details when the as of date is set to a time in the past when the employee
occupied a position.
On the Last Modified section of position details.

-- 471 of 472 --

Dayforce Implementation Guide
Copyright © 2026 Dayforce, Inc. All Rights Reserved 	Page 472 of 0
See Personal Data Management Administration.
Position Management Key Terms
The following terms are important to understand as you use Position Management:
Business Unit
Business units form the functional structure of the organization that keeps track of filled and
vacant positions. The business unit hierarchy represents a functional structure that is separate
from actual locations. All of the positions in your organization are associated with a business unit.
Department
A department is a generic area that can exist across your organization, like Finance, Marketing,
Sales, and HR. Departments are set up in Org Setup > Organization, in the Departments tab.
Job
A job is a general set of duties that employees can perform, such as Analyst, Director,
Coordinator, and Manager. Jobs are grouped based on responsibilities and can usually be
applied to multiple departments. Jobs are assigned a pay grade and are configured in Org Setup
> Jobs and Job Assignments.
Job Assignment
A job assignment is an instance of a job in a specific department. A job assignment combines a
department and a job, and it can be linked to work assignments. Job assignments also have
locations for which they apply. For example, if a Sales Associate job assignment is valid only in the
US, and it’s in the Sales department, then the job assignment applies to any location in the US that
contains a Sales department. Job assignments are configured in Org Setup > Jobs and Job
Assignments.
Location
Locations, also known as sites, represent the places where people are employed. A location can
be a physical building, a collection of buildings, a town, a city, a province or state, or it can be
virtual. Locations are defined in a hierarchy structure and are used to group workers for
scheduling or other purposes. Locations are set up in Org Setup > Organization, in the
Organization tab.
Position
A position is a unique approved headcount (by business unit and job) in the organization.
Positions usually have one employee A position can usually have only one employee occupying it,

-- 472 of 472 --

